 Last year I showed these two slides so that  demonstrate that the arctic ice cap, which for most of the last three million years  has been the size of the lower 48 states,  has shrunk by 40 percent.    	  去年 この２つのスライドをお見せして 過去３百万年 アラスカとハワイを除く米国と— 同じ面積があった極域の氷河が 約40％も縮小したことが おわかりいただけたでしょう  
 But this understates the seriousness of this particular problem  because it doesn't show the thickness of the ice.    	  しかし もっと深刻な問題というのは 実は氷河の厚さなのです  
 The arctic ice cap is, in a sense,  the beating heart of the global climate system.    	  極域の氷河は 言うなれば 世界の気候システムの鼓動する心臓で  
 It expands in winter and contracts in summer.    	  冬は膨張し夏は縮小します  
 The next slide I show you will be  a rapid fast-forward of what's happened over the last 25 years.    	  では 次のスライドで 過去25年の動きを早送りにして見てみましょう  
 The permanent ice is marked in red.    	  赤い色が永久氷河です  
 As you see, it expands to the dark blue --  that's the annual ice in winter,  and it contracts in summer.    	  濃い青の所まで膨張しますね これが冬の年間氷河です 夏には縮小します  
 The so-called permanent ice, five years old or older,  you can see is almost like blood,  spilling out of the body here.    	  永久氷河とは５年以上の物です これを見るとまるで 身体から出血しているようですね  
 In 25 years it's gone from this, to this.    	  この25年で これから こんな風になったのです  
 This is a problem because the warming  heats up the frozen ground around the Arctic Ocean,  where there is a massive amount of frozen carbon  which, when it thaws, is turned into methane by microbes.    	  これが問題なのは 気温が上昇すると 極海域の凍った地面が暖まるため 凍っていた二酸化炭素が溶け 微生物によってメタン化するからです  
 Compared to the total amount of global warming pollution in the atmosphere,  that amount could double if we cross this tipping point.    	  大気中にある地球温暖化汚染の総量は この臨界点を越えると２倍になりえます  
 Already in some shallow lakes in Alaska,  methane is actively bubbling up out of the water.    	  既にアラスカの浅い湖では 水面にメタンが泡立っています  
 Professor Katey Walter from the University of Alaska  went out with another team to another shallow lake last winter.    	  アラスカ大学のケイティ・ウォルター教授は 去年の冬 別の浅い湖を調べに行きました  
 Video: Whoa!   Al Gore: She's okay. The question is whether we will be.    	  ビデオ：わあ！ 教授は大丈夫でしたが 我々はどうなんでしょう？  
 And one reason is, this enormous heat sink  heats up Greenland from the north.    	  理由の１つは この巨大な熱吸収装置が 北からグリーンランドを暖める事です  
 This is an annual melting river.    	  毎年 川の氷が溶けるとこうなりますが  
 But the volumes are much larger than ever.    	  水位は以前よりかなり増しています  
 This is the Kangerlussuaq River in southwest Greenland.    	  これは南西のカンゲルルスアーク川です  
 If you want to know how sea level rises  from land-base ice melting this is where it reaches the sea.    	  地上の氷が溶ける事で 海面水位がいかに上昇するか これは 溶けた氷が海に達するところです  
 These flows are increasing very rapidly.    	  この流れは急速に早まっています  
 At the other end of the planet, Antarctica  the largest mass of ice on the planet.    	  そして地球の反対側で 地球最大の氷河がある南極では  
 Last month scientists reported the entire continent  is now in negative ice balance.    	  先月の科学者達の報告によると 大陸全体で氷のバランスがマイナスでした  
 And west Antarctica cropped up on top some under-sea islands,  is particularly rapid in its melting.    	  そして海中の島に持ち上げられた南極の西部は 特に溶解が急速に進んでおり  
 That's equal to 20 feet of sea level, as is Greenland.    	  グリーンランドと同じく、海水面にして約6メートルです  
 In the Himalayas, the third largest mass of ice:  at the top you see new lakes, which a few years ago were glaciers.    	  ヒマラヤ山脈には世界で３番目の氷河があり ここ数年　それが溶けて頂上には湖ができています  
 40 percent of all the people in the world  get half of their drinking water from that melting flow.    	  世界の人口の40％は 飲料水の半分を この溶けた水に頼っています  
 In the Andes, this glacier is the  source of drinking water for this city.    	  アンデス山脈地方では この氷河が飲み水の源です  
 The flows have increased.    	  流れは上昇しましたが  
 But when they go away, so does much of the drinking water.    	  水がなくなると飲料水もなくなります  
 In California there has been a 40 percent  decline in the Sierra snowpack.    	  カリフォルニアのシエラ山脈では 積雪量が40％も減少しており  
 This is hitting the reservoirs.    	  貯水池に打撃を与えており  
 And the predictions, as you've read, are serious.    	  今後の予報はかなり厳しいものです  
 This drying around the world has lead to  a dramatic increase in fires.    	  世界中でこのように水がなくなる事で 火事もかなり増えています  
 And the disasters around the world  have been increasing at an absolutely extraordinary  and unprecedented rate.    	  そして世界中で大災害が これまでに例を見ない率で 増えているのです  
 Four times as many in the last 30 years  as in the previous 75.    	  この30年に起こった災害は その前の75年に比べて４倍です  
 This is a completely unsustainable pattern.    	  このパターンが続くと大変な事になります  
 If you look at in the context of history  you can see what this is doing.    	  歴史との関連で見てみると これがどんな影響を与えているかおわかりでしょう  
 In the last five years  we've added 70 million tons of CO2  every 24 hours --  25 million tons every day to the oceans.    	  この５年間私達は 24時間毎に７千万トンもの 二酸化炭素を生じています 海には毎日２千５百万トンです  
 Look carefully at the area of the eastern Pacific,  from the Americas, extending westward,  and on either side of the Indian subcontinent,  where there is a radical depletion of oxygen in the oceans.    	  太平洋の東部をよく見て下さい アメリカから西に向かって さらにインド亜大陸の両側をよく見ると 海の酸素が激変しているのがわかるはずです  
 The biggest single cause of global warming,  along with deforestation, which is 20 percent of it, is the burning of fossil fuels.    	  地球温暖化の原因の一つは 20％が森林伐採ですがそれと共に化石燃料も大きな原因です  
 Oil is a problem, and coal is the most serious problem.    	  石油も問題ですが石炭はもっと深刻な問題です  
 The United States is one of the two  largest emitters, along with China.    	  石炭の使用量においては 中国と共に米国がトップです  
 And the proposal has been to build a lot more coal plants.    	  そして さらに石炭工場を増やす計画が出ています  
 But we're beginning to see a sea change.    	  しかし 大変化の兆しがあります  
 Here are the ones that have been cancelled in the last few years  with some green alternatives proposed.    	  ここ数年 これだけの計画が中止となり 環境に優しい方法も計画が出ています  
   However there is a political battle  in our country.    	  （拍手） しかし我が国では この問題をめぐり 対立問題となっています  
 And the coal industries and the oil industries  spent a quarter of a billion dollars in the last calendar year  promoting clean coal,  which is an oxymoron.    	  石炭業界や石油業界は 環境に優しい石炭を促進するために去年だけで ２億５千万ドルも費やしましたが そんな石炭などありえません  
 That image reminded me of something.    	  このイメージは何かと似ていませんか  
   Around Christmas, in my home in Tennessee,  a billion gallons of coal sludge was spilled.    	   私の故郷 テネシーでは クリスマスの頃 10億ガロンもの石炭スラッジが流出します  
 You probably saw it on the news.    	  ニュースでご覧になったでしょう  
 This, all over the country, is the second largest waste stream in America.    	  これは全国に広がる問題で 米国第二の汚染細流です  
 This happened around Christmas.    	  これはクリスマスの時期に起こりました  
 One of the coal industry's ads around Christmas was this one.    	  クリスマスに石炭業界が放映した広告の１つがこれです  
 Video: ♪♫ Frosty the coal man is a jolly, happy soul.    	  ビデオ：♪♫石炭のフロスティは愉快で幸せ  
 He's abundant here in America,  and he helps our economy grow.    	  アメリカにはたくさんあるし 僕らの経済成長を助けてくれる  
 Frosty the coal man is getting cleaner everyday.    	  石炭のフロスティ　日に日に地球に優しい  
 He's affordable and adorable, and workers keep their pay.    	  値段も安くてかわいくて 労働者には賃金だ  
 Al Gore: This is the source of much of the coal in West Virginia.    	  ゴア：石炭は殆どウェスト・バージニアから来ています  
 The largest mountaintop miner is the head of Massey Coal.    	  ここの最大炭鉱会社はマッセイ石炭社で その社長の声明です  
 Video: Don Blankenship: Let me be clear about it. Al Gore,  Nancy Pelosi, Harry Reid, they don't know what they're talking about.    	  ビデオ：ドン・ブランケンシップ：はっきり言いますが アル・ゴアやナンシー・ペロシ、ハリー・レイドは 何も知らないのです  
 Al Gore: So the Alliance for Climate Protection  has launched two campaigns.    	  ゴア：よって気候保護同盟は２つのキャンペーンを ２つのキャンペーンを開始しました  
 This is one of them, part of one of them.    	  これはその１つの一部です  
 Video: Actor: At COALergy we view climate change as a very serious  threat to our business.    	  ビデオ：役者：COALergyでは 気候変化が 我々のビジネスに非常に危険だと見ています  
 That's why we've made it our primary goal  to spend a large sum of money  on an advertising effort to help bring out and complicate  the truth about coal.    	  そのため多額の資金を投資して 石炭に関する真実を明かし 複雑にするための宣伝をする事を 私達の第一の目的にしました  
 The fact is, coal isn't dirty.    	  事実　石炭は汚染など生じません  
 We think it's clean --  smells good, too.    	  きれいなものです 匂いもいい  
 So don't worry about climate change.    	  さあ気候変化など ご心配なく  
 Leave that up to us.    	  私達にお任せ下さい  
   Video: Actor: Clean coal -- you've heard a lot about it.    	   ビデオ：役者：環境に優しい石炭  
 So let's take a tour of this state-of-the-art clean coal facility.    	  よく聞きますね では最新式の環境に優しい石炭工場の中をご案内しましょう  
 Amazing! The machinery is kind of loud.    	  すばらしい！　機械の音が大きいですね  
 But that's the sound of clean coal technology.    	  でも これこそが環境に優しい石炭技術の音なんです  
 And while burning coal is one of the leading causes of global warming,  the remarkable clean coal technology you see here  changes everything.    	  石炭を燃やす事が地球温暖化の主な原因の１つですが ここで見られる環境に優しい石炭技術が 全てを変えるのです  
 Take a good long look: this is today's clean coal technology.    	  よく見て下さい　これが今日の環境に優しい石炭技術です  
 Al Gore: Finally, the positive alternative  meshes with our economic challenge  and our national security challenge.    	  ゴア：そしてついに 経済問題や 国家安全問題をも乗り越える— 有望な代替方法がこれです  
 Video: Narrator: America is in crisis -- the economy,  national security, the climate crisis.    	  ビデオ：ナレーター：アメリカは危機に瀕しています 経済・国家安全・気候危機  
 The thread that links them all:  our addiction to carbon based fuels,  like dirty coal and foreign oil.    	  この諸問題に共通しているのは 有害石炭や外国の石油などの 炭素系燃料依存症ですが—  
 But now there is a bold new solution to get us out of this mess.    	  この窮境から抜け出す画期的な方法があります  
 Repower America with 100 percent clean electricity  within 10 years.    	  100％クリーンな電気で10年以内に Repower America  
 A plan to put America back to work,  make us more secure, and help stop global warming.    	  アメリカの経済を活性化する事で 国家はより安全となり地球温暖化も妨げられます  
 Finally, a solution that's big enough to solve our problems.    	  ついに 我々の諸問題を解決できる大きな解決策  
 Repower America. Find out more.    	  Repower America. ぜひ参加しましょう  
 Al Gore: This is the last one.    	  ゴア：これが最後のです  
 Video: Narrator: It's about repowering America.    	  ビデオ：ナレーター：アメリカにパワーを戻そう  
 One of the fastest ways to cut our dependence  on old dirty fuels that are killing our planet.    	  それこそが従来の地球汚染源となる— 燃料への依存を絶ち切る最速の方法です  
 Man: Future's over here. Wind, sun, a new energy grid.    	  男性：未来はここにあります　風・太陽・新しいエネルギー・グリッド  
 Man #2: New investments to create high-paying jobs.    	  男性２：新しい投資をして高給の職を作ろう  
 Narrator: Repower America. It's time to get real.    	  ナレーター：Repower America　本気で考える時です  
 Al Gore: There is an old African proverb that says,  "If you want to go quickly, go alone.    	  ゴア：アフリカの諺にこういうものがあります "素早く行きたいなら独りで行け  
 If you want to go far, go together."    	  遠くまで行きたいなら一緒に行け"  
 We need to go far, quickly.    	  私達は遠くまで素早く行かねばなりません  
 Thank you very much.    	  ありがとうございました  
 Last year at TED I gave an introduction to the LHC.    	  昨年のTEDで、LHCについてお話ししました  
 And I promised to come back and give you an update  on how that machine worked.    	  次の機会に、その最新情報をお伝えすることを約束しました 装置がうまく動作しているかについてです  
 So this is it. And for those of you that weren't there,  the LHC is the largest scientific experiment ever attempted --  27 kilometers in circumference.    	  今日はそのお話をします　昨年、いらっしゃらなかった方のために説明すると、 LHCは最大規模の科学実験であり 円周が27キロメートルにも及びます  
 Its job is to recreate the conditions  that were present less than a billionth of a second after the universe began,  up to 600 million times a second.    	  その目的は状況の再現 つまり、宇宙が始まって10億分の1秒未満の状態を 最大、一秒間に６億回再現することです  
 It's nothing if not ambitious.    	  本当に野心的な実験です  
 This is the machine below Geneva.    	  ジュネーブの地下にある装置です  
 We take the pictures of those mini-Big Bangs inside detectors.    	  検知器の中で発生している小型のビッグバンを撮影します  
 This is the one I work on. It's called the ATLAS detector --  44 meters wide, 22 meters in diameter.    	  これは私が担当している装置で、ATLAS検知器と呼ばれています 幅は44メートル、直径が22メートルあります  
 Spectacular picture here of ATLAS under construction  so you can see the scale.    	  建設中のATLASのすばらしい写真です 大きさを分かっていただけるでしょうか  
 On the 10th of September last year we turned the machine on for the first time.    	  昨年の9月10日、装置のスイッチが初めて入れられました  
 And this picture was taken by ATLAS.    	  ATLASが撮影した写真です  
 It caused immense celebration in the control room.    	  コントロール・ルームは大喜びでした  
 It's a picture of the first beam particle  going all the way around the LHC,  colliding with a piece of the LHC deliberately,  and showering particles into the detector.    	  こちらは、最初のビーム粒子の写真です LHCを周回しているビーム粒子を LHCに衝突させて 検知器に粒子を浴びせました  
 In other words, when we saw that picture on September 10th  we knew the machine worked,  which is a great triumph.    	  つまり、9月10日に撮影された写真によって この装置がうまく作動したと分かったのです 大成功でした  
 I don't know whether this got the biggest cheer,  or this, when someone went onto Google  and saw the front page was like that.    	  これ程の喜びが過去にあったでしょうか そしてGoogleでは フロントページはこうなっていました  
 It means we made cultural impact  as well as scientific impact.    	  つまりは、文化的にも 科学的にも衝撃をもたらすことができたということです  
 About a week later we had a problem with the machine,  related actually to these bits of wire here -- these gold wires.    	  一週間後、装置に問題が発生しました この電線、金色の電線に関する問題です  
 Those wires carry 13 thousand amps  when the machine is working in full power.    	  この電線を1万3千アンペアが流れます 装置がフルパワーで作動した場合です  
 Now the engineers amongst you will look at them and say,  "No they don't. They're small wires."    	  エンジニアであれば、こう考えるでしょう 「無理だ　こんな細い電線では」  
 They can do that because  when they are very cold they are what's called superconducting wire.    	  しかし、それは可能なのです 超伝導線と呼ばれる超低温状態にある場合  
 So at minus 271 degrees,  colder than the space between the stars,  those wires can take that current.    	  マイナス271度、 つまり恒星間の宇宙空間よりも低温では この電線は、その大きさの電流を流すことができるのです  
 In one of the joints between over 9,000 magnets in LHC,  there was a manufacturing defect.    	  LHCで使用している九千以上の磁石をつなぐジョイントの一つに 製造上の欠陥がありました  
 So the wire heated up slightly,  and its 13,000 amps suddenly encountered electrical resistance.    	  このため、電線の温度がわずかばかり上昇 1万3千アンペアの電流に突然、電気抵抗がかかりました  
 This was the result.    	  これがその結果です  
 Now that's more impressive  when you consider those magnets weigh over 20 tons,  and they moved about a foot.    	  言葉にもなりません 20トン以上の重さがある磁石が １フィート以上も動いています  
 So we damaged about 50 of the magnets.    	  約50個の磁石に損傷がありました  
 We had to take them out, which we did.    	  損傷のあった磁石を取り出さなければなりませんでした  
 We reconditioned them all, fixed them.    	  磁石を修理し、再び使えるようにしました  
 They're all on their way back underground now.    	  今は地下に戻しているところです  
 By the end of March the LHC will be intact again.    	  五月の終わりまでには、LHCを復旧できるはずです  
 We will switch it on,  and we expect to take data in June or July,  and continue with our quest to find out  what the building blocks of the universe are.    	  スイッチを入れれば 六月か七月にはデータを取得できると考えています そして我々の探究を続けることになります 宇宙をつくる構成要素とは何であるのか  
 Now of course, in a way  those accidents reignite the debate  about the value of science and engineering at the edge. It's easy to refute.    	  しかし、もちろん一方では この事故によって、再び議論が起こっています 先端科学技術に関する価値について　これを論破するのは簡単です  
 I think that the fact that it's so difficult,  the fact that we're overreaching, is the value of things like the LHC.    	  私は、それが困難であるという事実 我々が無理をしなければ達成できないという事実、それこそがLHCのようなものの価値であると信じています  
 I will leave the final word to an English scientist, Humphrey Davy,  who, I suspect,  when defending his protege's useless experiments --  his protege was Michael Faraday --  said this, "Nothing is so dangerous  to the progress of the human mind  than to assume that our views of science are ultimate,  that there are no mysteries in nature,  that our triumphs are complete, and that  there are no new worlds to conquer."    	  英国の科学者であるハンフリー・デービの言葉で締めくくりたいと思います 彼は 弟子が行っていた実験に価値がないと非難されていた時、 その弟子とはマイケル・ファラデーですが、 こう言いました　「最も危険なこと、 人類の精神的な進歩に関して危険なことは 我々の科学的見地は極限に達し もう自然界には神秘など存在せず 我々の偉業は達成されており もう、新たに征服すべき世界は存在しない、と考えることだ」  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 I want to start out by asking you to think back to when you were a kid,  playing with blocks.    	  みなさんは子供の頃 ブロックで遊んだと思います  
 As you figured out how to reach out and grasp,  pick them up and move them around,  you were actually learning how to think and solve problems  by understanding and manipulating spatial relationships.    	  ブロックを手にとり 並べて遊ぶとき 空間を把握し、駆使することで 思考力と問題解決能力が養われます 空間推論は周りの世界を理解することと  
 Spatial reasoning is deeply connected  So, as a computer scientist  inspired by this utility of our interactions with physical objects --  along with my adviser Pattie, and my collaborator Jeevan Kalanithi --  I started to wonder -- what if when we used a computer,  instead of having this one mouse cursor that was a like a digital fingertip  moving around a flat desktop,  what if we could reach in with both hands and grasp information physically,    	  深い関係があります 私はコンピュータ科学者として この物体とのインタラクションに注目し パティーの助言とジーバン・カラニシの協力のもと ある仮説を立てました―コンピュータを使う時 モニター上で指の役目をするカーソルを マウスで２次元的に動かすのではなく 両手を使って情報を直に手にとり  
 arranging it the way we wanted?    	  自由にアレンジできないかと  
 This question was so compelling that we decided to explore the answer,  by building Siftables.    	  この疑問に惹かれ、答えを探すため シフタブルを作りました  
 In a nutshell, a Siftable is an interactive computer  They're able to be moved around by hand,  they can sense each other, they can sense their motion,  and they have a screen and a wireless radio.    	  シフタブルは親指サイズの インタラクティブなコンピュータです 実際に手で動かせ 互いの動きも感知 画面と無線通信も搭載しています  
 Most importantly, they're physical,  so like the blocks, you can move them just by reaching out and grasping.    	  ポイントは物理的な操作性 ブロック同様、手にとって動かせます  
 And Siftables are an example of a new ecosystem of tools for manipulating digital information.    	  シフタブルはデジタル情報を扱うツールとしては  
 And as these tools become more physical,  more aware of their motion, aware of each other,  and aware of the nuance of how we move them,  we can start to explore some new and fun interaction styles.    	  従来とは一線を画すものです 物理的な操作性と動きの検出 互いの感知能力 感応度を高めれば 新しく楽しいインタラクションが可能になります  
 So, I'm going to start with some simple examples.    	  例をお見せします  
 This Siftable is configured to show video,  and if I tilt it in one direction, it'll roll the video this way;  if I tilt it the other way it rolls it backwards.    	  このシフタブルは動画を再生できます こっちに傾けると再生し 反対に傾けると巻き戻し  
 And these interactive portraits are aware of each other.    	  次は画面上の顔が互いを認識します  
 So if I put them next to each other, they get interested.    	  隣に置けば関心を示し  
 If they get surrounded, they notice that too,  they might get a little flustered.    	  囲まれればそれを感知し 動揺したりもします  
 And they can also sense their motion and tilt.    	  動きと傾きもわかります  
 One of the interesting implications on interaction, we started to realize,  was that we could use everyday gestures on data,  like pouring a color the way we might pour a liquid.    	  このインタラクションが示唆しているのは 普段の動作でデータを操作できることです 例えば、ペンキを注ぐ動作です  
 So in this case, we've got three Siftables configured to be paint buckets  and I can use them to pour color into that central one,  where they get mixed.    	  ペンキ缶に設定した３つのシフタブルで 中央のシフタブルに色を注ぐと 色が混ざり合う  
 If we overshoot, we can pour a little bit back.    	  入れすぎたら少し戻せばいい  
 There are also some neat possibilities for education,  like language, math and logic games  where we want to give people the ability to try things quickly,  and view the results immediately.    	  教育でも活用が期待できます 言語や数学、論理学のゲームなど 誰でも簡単に試せて すぐ結果が見られます  
 So here I'm --    This is a Fibonacci sequence that I'm making with a simple equation program.    	  ここで私は― （拍手） フィボナッチ数列をプログラムしました  
 Here we have a word game that's kind of like a mash-up between Scrabble and Boggle.    	  こちらは単語ゲームです  
 Basically, in every round  you get a randomly assigned letter on each Siftable,  and as you try to make words it checks against a dictionary.    	  文字を並べ替えて 単語を作ります 答えは内蔵の辞書が判定します  
 Then, after about 30 seconds, it reshuffles,  and you have a new set of letters and new possibilities to try.    	  30秒ごとにシャッフルし 別の組み合わせにトライ  
   Thank you.    	  （拍手） ありがとうございます  
   So these are some kids that came on a field trip to the Media Lab,  and I managed to get them to try it out, and shoot a video.    	  （拍手） 見学に来た児童に 試してもらいました  
 They really loved it.    	  気に入ってくれました  
 And, one of the interesting things about this kind of application  is that you don't have to give people many instructions.    	  こうしたツールの特徴は 細かい説明がいらないこと  
 All you have to say is, "Make words,"  and they know exactly what to do.    	  「単語を作りましょう」だけで すべてが伝わります  
 So here's another few people trying it out.    	  また別の人が試してます  
 That's our youngest beta tester, down there on the right.    	  右手前は最年少の体験者です  
 Turns out, all he wanted to do was to stack the Siftables up.    	  ただ積み上げて遊ぶという  
 So to him, they were just blocks.    	  彼なりの楽しみ方もあるようです  
 Now, this is an interactive cartoon application.    	  次はアニメのアプリケーション  
 And we wanted to build a learning tool for language learners.    	  言語学習用のツールを作ろうと思いました  
 And this is Felix, actually.    	  フィリックス君が試します  
 And he can bring new characters into the scene,  just by lifting the Siftables off the table that have that character shown on them.    	  キャラクターを登場させるには シフタブルを持ち上げるだけ  
 Here, he's bringing the sun out.    	  太陽を登場させます  
 Video: The sun is rising.    	  ビデオ「 太陽が昇っています」  
 David Merrill: Now he's brought a tractor into the scene.    	  トラクターを登場させます  
 Video: The orange tractor.    	  ビデオ「オレンジのトラクター」  
 Good job! Yeah!    	  やったね！  
 DM: So by shaking the Siftables and putting them next to each other  he can make the characters interact --  Video: Woof!    	  振って隣合わせにすれば 交流させることもできる ビデオ「 ワンワン」  
 DM: inventing his own narrative.    	  自分の物語が作れる  
 Video: Hello!    	  ビデオ「こんにちは」  
 DM: It's an open-ended story,  and he gets to decide how it unfolds.    	  自分で好きなように ストーリーが展開できる  
 Video: Fly away, cat.    	  ビデオ「猫よ飛んでいけ」  
 DM: So, the last example I have time to show you today  is a music sequencing and live performance tool  in which Siftables act as sounds  like lead, bass and drums.    	  最後のデモは最近開発した ミュージックシーケンサーと ライブ演奏ツールです シフタブルはリード、ベース、ドラムなど 音源として使います  
 Each of these has four different variations,  you get to choose which one you want to use.    	  ４つのバリエーションから お好みで選択し  
 And you can inject these sounds into a sequence  that you can assemble into the pattern that you want.    	  シーケンスに適用すれば 好きなパターンが組めます  
 And you inject it by just bumping up the sound Siftable against a sequence Siftable.    	  音源はシーケンスピースに当てて挿入します  
 There are effects that you can control live, like reverb and filter.    	  リバーブやフィルタは音源にかけ  
 You attach it to a particular sound and then tilt to adjust it.    	  傾けて調節する  
 And then, overall effects like tempo and volume  that apply to the entire sequence.    	  テンポと音量は シーケンス全体に適用します  
 So let's have a look.    	  実演してみましょう  
 Video:   DM: We'll start by putting a lead  into two sequence Siftables, arrange them into a series,  extend it, add a little more lead.    	   はじめにリードを ２つのシーケンスにつけて並べます 増やしてリードを加え  
 Now I put a bass line in.    	  ベースを入れる  
 Video:   DM: Now I'll put some percussion in.    	   次はパーカッション  
 Video:   DM: And now I'll attach the filter to the drums, so I can control the effect live.    	   ドラムにフィルタで効果をつけます  
 Video:   DM: I can speed up the whole sequence  by tilting the tempo one way or the other.    	   曲のテンポは 傾けて調節します  
 Video:   DM: And now I'll attach the filter to the bass for some more expression.    	   ベースにフィルタをかけ変化をつける  
 Video:   DM: I can rearrange the sequence while it plays.    	   演奏中に順序も変えられます  
 making it longer or shorter as I go.    	  長さを変えたりしながら  
 And now, finally, I can fade the whole sequence out  using the volume Siftable, tilted to the left.    	  即興もできる 最後に音量を左に傾け フェードアウトします  
   Thank you.    	  （拍手） ありがとうございます  
 So, as you can see,  my passion is for making new human-computer interfaces  And today, I had time to show you one point in this new design space,  and a few of the possibilities that we're working to bring out of the laboratory.    	  私が求めるのは 脳や体の動きに即した ヒューマンインターフェース 今日はそのデザインの一例と 研究中の応用例を紹介しました  
 So the thought I want to leave you with  is that we're on the cusp of this new generation of tools  for interacting with digital media  that are going to bring information into our world  on our terms.    	  私たちは 身体感覚に合った形で デジタルメディアとインタラクトできる 新たなツールの時代を 今まさに迎えようとしているのです  
 Thank you very much.    	  ありがとうございました  
 I look forward to talking with all of you.    	  皆さんとお話できるのを楽しみにしています  
 I am a writer.    	  私は作家ですが―  
 Writing books is my profession but it's more than that, of course.    	  書くことは 仕事以上のものです  
 It is also my great lifelong love and fascination.    	  ずっと 情熱を注いできたし―  
 And I don't expect that that's ever going to change.    	  今後もそれは 変わりません  
 But, that said, something kind of peculiar has happened recently  in my life and in my career,  which has caused me to have to recalibrate my whole relationship with this work.    	  と言いつつ 最近変わった体験をしました 公私にわたって… 仕事への姿勢を 考え直すことになりました  
 And the peculiar thing is that I recently wrote this book,  this memoir called "Eat, Pray, Love"  which, decidedly unlike any of my previous books,  went out in the world for some reason, and became this big,  mega-sensation, international bestseller thing.    	  最近 回顧録を書き上げました 題名は― "食べ祈り愛する" 明らかに 今までの作品と違います どういうわけか 各国語に翻訳され― 話題を呼び 世界的ベストセラーになりました  
 The result of which is that everywhere I go now,  people treat me like I'm doomed.    	  その結果として 今ではどこでも― 運が尽きたヒト扱いされます  
 Seriously -- doomed, doomed!    	  本当に "もう終り" なんです  
 Like, they come up to me now, all worried, and they say,  "Aren't you afraid you're never going to be able to top that?    	  みんな 心配顔でこう言います "あれを越えられなかったらと 不安では?"  
 Aren't you afraid you're going to keep writing for your whole life  and you're never again going to create a book  that anybody in the world cares about at all,  ever again?"    	  "不安にはならない? " "一生書き続けようと―" "注目される本が書けないって" "もう 二度と"  
 So that's reassuring, you know.    	  まあ 勇気づけられますこと  
 But it would be worse, except for that I happen to remember  that over 20 years ago, when I was a teenager,  when I first started telling people that I wanted to be a writer,  I was met with this same sort of fear-based reaction.    	  もっとヒドい経験もあります 20年以上前 10代の頃 言ったのです 作家になりたい と 人々は今と同じ 不安顔でした  
 And people would say, "Aren't you afraid you're never going to have any success?    	  "成功しなかったら?"  
 Aren't you afraid the humiliation of rejection will kill you?    	  "拒否される屈辱に耐えられる?"  
 Aren't you afraid that you're going to work your whole life at this craft  and nothing's ever going to come of it  and you're going to die on a scrap heap of broken dreams    Like that, you know.    	  "一生 書き続けて―" "何も完成しなくて―" "口は 失敗の苦汁に満たされ―" "破れた夢の山なす残骸の上で のたれ死んでも?"  そんな感じでした  
 The answer -- the short answer to all those questions is, "Yes."    	  これらの答えは 端的には"イエス" です  
 Yes, I'm afraid of all those things.    	  もちろん不安です  
 And I always have been.    	  常に不安です  
 And I'm afraid of many, many more things besides  that people can't even guess at,  like seaweed and other things that are scary.    	  怖いものは山ほどあります 他人が分らないものも… 海藻など ゾッとします  
 But, when it comes to writing,  the thing that I've been sort of thinking about lately, and wondering about lately,  You know, is it rational?    	  でも執筆に関しては― 最近 ずっと考え続けています 理にかなってるか と  
 Is it logical that anybody should be expected  to be afraid of the work that they feel they were put on this Earth to do.    	  天職だと思うことを― 恐れるのが当然と みなされるのが?  
 And what is it specifically about creative ventures  that seems to make us really nervous about each other's mental health  in a way that other careers kind of don't do, you know?    	  クリエイティブの世界が 他と違うのは― 精神を気遣われる ということ 他の職業では あまりないでしょう?  
 Like my dad, for example, was a chemical engineer  and I don't recall once in his 40 years of chemical engineering  anybody asking him if he was afraid to be a chemical engineer, you know?    	  父は 化学技術者でした 私の記憶では 40年勤めた間に― 仕事が不安か と訊いた人はいません  
 "That chemical-engineering block, John, how's it going?"    	  "最近 化学技術スランプは大丈夫?"  
 It just didn't come up like that, you know?    	  ありえないでしょう?  
 But to be fair, chemical engineers as a group  haven't really earned a reputation over the centuries    We writers, we kind of do have that reputation,  and not just writers, but creative people across all genres,  it seems, have this reputation for being enormously mentally unstable.    	  もっとも 化学技術者のほうは― 何世紀も 風評とは無縁です "躁うつの飲んだくれ" という風評とは…  作家には つきものです いえ 全クリエイティブ業界で… 精神不安定で 知られているし―  
 And all you have to do is look at the very grim death count  in the 20th century alone, of really magnificent creative minds  who died young and often at their own hands, you know?    	  無残な死者の数を見ても 明らかです 20世紀だけで 偉大な創作者たちが― どれだけ 早世し自殺しているか  
 And even the ones who didn't literally commit suicide  seem to be really undone by their gifts, you know.    	  実際の自殺でなく― 自分の才能に殺された人もいます  
 Norman Mailer, just before he died, last interview, he said,  "Every one of my books has killed me a little more."    	  ノーマン メイラーは生前 言いました "作品が ジワジワと私を殺す"  
 An extraordinary statement to make about your life's work.    	  ライフワークに対し 尋常ではない考え方ですが―  
 But we don't even blink when we hear somebody say this,  because we've heard that kind of stuff for so long  and somehow we've completely internalized and accepted collectively  this notion that creativity and suffering are somehow inherently linked  and that artistry, in the end, will always ultimately lead to anguish.    	  誰も驚かないでしょう 長年 聞き慣れた話ですから 当然のことと 捉えられています 創造に苦悩はつきものであり― 芸術性は 必ず最終的に苦痛をもたらすと…  
 And the question that I want to ask everybody here today  is are you guys all cool with that idea?    	  今日の提起は ここです これで いいと思います?  
 Are you comfortable with that?    	  変だと思いません?  
 Because you look at it even from an inch away and, you know --  I'm not at all comfortable with that assumption.    	  よく考えてみても…? 私には 引っかかります  
 I think it's odious.    	  忌まわしいし―  
 And I also think it's dangerous,  and I don't want to see it perpetuated into the next century.    	  危険な発想でしょう 次世紀に残してほしくない  
 I think it's better if we encourage our great creative minds to live.    	  むしろ生き続けるよう 励ますべきでは?  
 And I definitely know that, in my case -- in my situation --  it would be very dangerous for me to start sort of leaking down that dark path  of assumption,  particularly given the circumstance that I'm in right now in my career.    	  自分の状況から見ても 分かります あの暗い前提を 受け入れるのは― 危険でしょう　ことに私の― 今の状況を 考えるなら…  
 Which is -- you know, like check it out,  I'm pretty young, I'm only about 40 years old.    	  つまり… この通り― まだ若く 40そこそこ  
 I still have maybe another four decades of work left in me.    	  仕事も あと40年続けるかもしれない  
 And it's exceedingly likely that anything I write from this point forward  is going to be judged by the world as the work that came after  the freakish success of my last book, right?    	  今から先 書き上げるものは間違いなく― この前出版した本と 比較されるんです 信じられないぐらい売れたあの本と…  
 I should just put it bluntly, because we're all sort of friends here now --  it's exceedingly likely that my greatest success is behind me.    	  ここだけの話 率直に言うと― 今後 代表作を書ける見込みは低いんです  
 So Jesus, what a thought!    	  ああ なんてこと!  
 That's the kind of thought that could lead a person  to start drinking gin at nine o'clock in the morning,  and I don't want to go there.    	  こんな風に考えて 人は― 朝9時からジンを飲むようになるんです それは ごめんです  
   I would prefer to keep doing this work that I love.    	   好きな仕事を続けたい  
 And so, the question becomes, how?    	  そこで考えます "どうやって?"  
 And so, it seems to me, upon a lot of reflection,  that the way that I have to work now, in order to continue writing,  is that I have to create some sort of protective psychological construct, right?    	  振り返って じっくり考えました 書き続けるために なすべきことは― 心理的に守れるものを作ることだろう と  
 I have to sort of find some way to have a safe distance  between me, as I am writing, and my very natural anxiety  about what the reaction to that writing is going to be, from now on.    	  安全な距離を 保てるようになること 作家としての私と 未来の作品の評価を― 心配する私の間に…  
 And, as I've been looking, over the last year,  I've been sort of looking across time,  and I've been trying to find other societies  to see if they might have had better and saner ideas than we have  about how to help creative people  sort of manage the inherent emotional risks of creativity.    	  昨年中 手本を探し続けました 歴史も さかのぼり― 様々な社会も 探りました より良く まっとうな見解はないかと 創作者を助け 創作につきものの― 精神的リスクを管理できないか…  
 And that search has led me to ancient Greece and ancient Rome.    	  古代ギリシャとローマにありました  
 So stay with me, because it does circle around and back.    	  ついて来て下さい　じき戻りますから  
 But, ancient Greece and ancient Rome --  people did not happen to believe that creativity  came from human beings back then, OK?    	  古代のギリシャとローマでは― 信じられていませんでした 人間に創造性が備わっているとは…  
 People believed that creativity was this divine attendant spirit  that came to human beings from some distant and unknowable source,  for distant and unknowable reasons.    	  創造性は 人に付き添う精霊で― 遠く未知のところから来たのです 人間の理解を超えた動機から…  
 The Greeks famously called these divine attendant spirits of creativity "daemons."    	  古代ギリシャ人は 精霊を"ダイモン"と呼びました  
 Socrates, famously, believed that he had a daemon  who spoke wisdom to him from afar.    	  ソクラテスは ダイモンがついていると信じていた 遠くから叡智を語ってきたと…  
 The Romans had the same idea,  but they called that sort of disembodied creative spirit a genius.    	  ローマ人も同様でしたが― 肉体のない創造の霊を"ジーニアス" と呼びました  
 Which is great, because the Romans did not actually think  that a genius was a particularly clever individual.    	  彼らは "ジーニアス" を― 能力の秀でた個人とは 考えなかった  
 They believed that a genius was this, sort of magical divine entity,  who was believed to literally live in the walls of an artist's studio,  kind of like Dobby the house elf,  and sort of invisibly assist the artist with their work  and would shape the outcome of that work.    	  あの精霊のことだと 考えていました アトリエの壁の中に生き― ハリーポッターの妖精ドビーのように… 創作活動をこっそり手伝い― 作品を形作るんです  
 So brilliant -- there it is, right there, that distance that I'm talking about --  that psychological construct to protect you from the results of your work.    	  素晴らしい!　先ほど話した"距離"が存在します 作品の評価から 心理的に守られるものが…  
 And everyone knew that this is how it functioned, right?    	  そういうものだと 人々は信じていました  
 So the ancient artist was protected from certain things,  like, for example, too much narcissism, right?    	  古代のアーティストは 守られていたのです たとえば 過剰な自惚れから  
 If your work was brilliant, you couldn't take all the credit for it,  everybody knew that you had this disembodied genius who had helped you.    	  どんなに立派な作品でも 自分だけの功績ではない 霊が助けたと 知られていたからです  
 If your work bombed, not entirely your fault, you know?    	  失敗しても 自分だけのせいじゃない  
 Everyone knew your genius was kind of lame.    	  "ジーニアス" が ダメだったんです  
 And this is how people thought about creativity in the West for a really long time.    	  この考えは 長らく西洋に浸透していましたが―  
 And then the Renaissance came and everything changed,  and we had this big idea, and the big idea was,  let's put the individual human being at the center of the universe  above all gods and mysteries,  and there's no more room for mystical creatures who take dictation from the divine.    	  ルネッサンスが全てを変えました とてつもない考えが現れた 世界の中心に 人間を置こうではないかと 全ての神と神秘の上に… 神の言葉を伝える謎の生き物は 消えた…  
 And it's the beginning of rational humanism,  and people started to believe that creativity  came completely from the self of the individual.    	  合理的人文主義の 誕生です 人々も信じ始めました 創造性は 個人の内から現れるのだと  
 And for the first time in history,  you start to hear people referring to this or that artist as being a genius,  rather than having a genius.    	  史上初めて― 芸術家が "ジーニアス" と呼ばれるようになりました "ジーニアス" が側にいるのではない  
 And I got to tell you, I think that was a huge error.    	  これは大きな間違いですよ  
 You know, I think that allowing somebody, one mere person  to believe that he or she is like, the vessel,  of all divine, creative, unknowable, eternal mystery  is just a smidge too much responsibility to put on one fragile, human psyche.    	  たった一人の人間を― 男でも女でも 一人の人を― 神聖で創造的な謎の― 本質で源だと 信じさせるなんて 繊細な人間の心には 少し重荷では?  
 It's like asking somebody to swallow the sun.    	  太陽を飲めと 言うようなものです  
 It just completely warps and distorts egos,  and it creates all these unmanageable expectations about performance.    	  歪んだエゴでしょう それが 作品への過剰な期待を作り―  
 And I think the pressure of that  has been killing off our artists for the last 500 years.    	  その期待へのプレッシャーが― 過去500年 芸術家たちを殺してきたんです  
 And, if this is true,  and I think it is true,  the question becomes, what now?    	  もしこれが事実なら― 事実だと思いますが― 問題は 今後です  
 Can we do this differently?    	  他に道は ないでしょうか?  
 about the relationship between humans and the creative mystery.    	  創造性の謎と 上手に付き合うには― 昔の考え方に ならえばいい?  
 Maybe not.    	  恐らく無理でしょう  
 Maybe we can't just erase 500 years of rational humanistic thought  in one 18 minute speech.    	  500年に及ぶ 合理的人文思想を消すのは… 18分のスピーチでは ね  
 And there's probably people in this audience  who would raise really legitimate scientific suspicions  about the notion of, basically, fairies  who follow people around rubbing fairy juice on their projects and stuff.    	  恐らく この会場にも― 科学的な正当性を 疑う人がいるでしょう 妖精というアイデアに… 彼らが 作品に甘い蜜をかけるなんて?  
 I'm not, probably, going to bring you all along with me on this.    	  深入りは しませんが―  
 But the question that I kind of want to pose is --  you know, why not?    	  提起したいのは ここです "いいじゃない?"  
 Why not think about it this way?    	  "何がいけない?" と  
 Because it makes as much sense as anything else I have ever heard  in terms of explaining the utter maddening capriciousness  of the creative process.    	  今まで聞いたどの話より 納得いきます 創作過程の 意味不明な気まぐれが― 説明できます  
 A process which, as anybody who has ever tried to make something --  which is to say basically everyone here ---  knows does not always behave rationally.    	  何か創ろうとした人なら分かる― つまり皆さん ご存知のあの― 非合理な過程です  
 And, in fact, can sometimes feel downright paranormal.    	  ときに超常現象とさえ感じられる…  
 I had this encounter recently where I met the extraordinary American poet Ruth Stone,  who's now in her 90s, but she's been a poet her entire life  and she told me that when she was growing up in rural Virginia,  she would be out working in the fields,  and she said she would feel and hear a poem  coming at her from over the landscape.    	  最近 非凡な詩人 ルース ストーンに会いました 90を超えても現役の詩人です 彼女はバージニアの田舎で育ち― 畑仕事をしていた時に― 詩の到来を 感じたそうです 大地の彼方から やってくるのを…  
 And she said it was like a thunderous train of air.    	  ものすごい一群の風のようなものが―  
 And it would come barreling down at her over the landscape.    	  大地を越えて突進してくるのを―  
 And she felt it coming, because it would shake the earth under her feet.    	  地面の振動を感じて 察したそうです  
 She knew that she had only one thing to do at that point,  and that was to, in her words, "run like hell."    	  なすべきことは ただ一つ "がむしゃらに走る" こと  
 And she would run like hell to the house  and she would be getting chased by this poem,  and the whole deal was that she had to get to a piece of paper and a pencil  fast enough so that when it thundered through her, she could collect it  and grab it on the page.    	  がむしゃらに家へ走り― 詩に追われながら― 素早く 紙と鉛筆を手に取り― 詩が 身体を通り抜ける時に― つかまえ 書き留める  
 And other times she wouldn't be fast enough,  so she'd be running and running, and she wouldn't get to the house  and the poem would barrel through her and she would miss it  and she said it would continue on across the landscape,  looking, as she put it "for another poet."    	  間に合わない時もありました 走って走って… 間に合わず― 身体から素早く 抜けてしまった 彼女によると "恐らくそのまま― 次の詩人を探しに行った" と  
 And then there were these times --  this is the piece I never forgot --  she said that there were moments where she would almost miss it, right?    	  別の機会には― これは秀逸ですが― 逃がしそうな時が ありました  
 So, she's running to the house and she's looking for the paper  and the poem passes through her,  and she grabs a pencil just as it's going through her,  and then she said, it was like she would reach out with her other hand  and she would catch it.    	  必死で走り 紙を探し― 詩が身体を通り― 抜けようとした瞬間 鉛筆をつかみ― もう一方の手を伸ばし― 捕まえたそうです  
 She would catch the poem by its tail,  and she would pull it backwards into her body  as she was transcribing on the page.    	  詩の 尻尾をつかみ― 身体の中に 尻尾の方から取り込み― 書き写していったんです  
 And in these instances, the poem would come up on the page perfect and intact  but backwards, from the last word to the first.    	  詩は完璧に出来ましたが― 全て 逆さまでした  
   So when I heard that I was like -- that's uncanny,  that's exactly what my creative process is like.    	   それを聞いて思ったんです "まさか"と 私のやり方とソックリだったので  
   That's not at all what my creative process is -- I'm not the pipeline!    	   身体を通る部分じゃないですよ!  
 I'm a mule, and the way that I have to work  is I have to get up at the same time every day,  and sweat and labor and barrel through it really awkwardly.    	  私は頑固なので 仕事は― 毎朝 同じ時間に起き― 苦心してコツコツ書いています  
 But even I, in my mulishness,  even I have brushed up against that thing, at times.    	  そんな私でも― 出合う瞬間があります  
 And I would imagine that a lot of you have too.    	  皆さんも経験あるでしょう  
 You know, even I have had work or ideas come through me from a source  that I honestly cannot identify.    	  アイデアが降りてくるんです どこからともなく  
 And what is that thing?    	  これは一体?  
 And how are we to relate to it in a way that will not make us lose our minds,  but, in fact, might actually keep us sane?    	  取り乱さずに どう対処しましょう? 正気を保ちながら?  
 And for me, the best contemporary example that I have of how to do that  is the musician Tom Waits,  who I got to interview several years ago on a magazine assignment.    	  対処法の現代における お手本は― ミュージシャンの トム ウェイツです 数年前 雑誌の取材で会い―  
 And we were talking about this,  and you know, Tom, for most of his life, he was pretty much the embodiment  of the tormented contemporary modern artist,  trying to control and manage and dominate  these sort of uncontrollable creative impulses  that were totally internalized.    	  この話をしました 彼の人生は 典型的な― 苦悩する現代アーティストでした 扱いにくい創作の衝動を― 制しようと苦心していました 内面の衝動を…  
 But then he got older, he got calmer,  and one day he was driving down the freeway in Los Angeles,  and this is when it all changed for him.    	  歳をとり 穏やかになり― ある日 L.A.のフリーウェイを走っていて― 全てが変わりました  
 And he's speeding along, and all of a sudden  he hears this little fragment of melody,  that comes into his head as inspiration often comes, elusive and tantalizing,  and he wants it, it's gorgeous,  and he longs for it, but he has no way to get it.    	  飛ばしていたら 突然― 頭に 曲の断片が聴こえてきた とらえ難くもどかしい 閃きとして… たまりません 素晴らしくて― 待ち望んだ瞬間なのに―  
 He doesn't have a piece of paper, or a pencil, or a tape recorder.    	  紙も鉛筆もないんです テープレコーダーもない  
 So he starts to feel all of that old anxiety start to rise in him  like, "I'm going to lose this thing,  and I'll be be haunted by this song forever.    	  いつもの焦燥に 駆られました "これを逃して―" "一生悩まされる"  
 I'm not good enough, and I can't do it."    	  "俺はダメだ 無理だ"  
 And instead of panicking, he just stopped.    	  慌てる代わりに 止めました  
 He just stopped that whole mental process and he did something completely novel.    	  思考回路を止め― 斬新な行動に出ました  
 He just looked up at the sky, and he said,  "Excuse me, can you not see that I'm driving?"    	  空を見上げ― "なあ 運転してるのが分からないのか?"  
   "Do I look like I can write down a song right now?    	   "今 曲が書けるとでも?"  
 If you really want to exist, come back at a more opportune moment  when I can take care of you.    	  "書いてもらいたきゃ 出直して来いよ" "面倒見てやれる時に"  
 Otherwise, go bother somebody else today.    	  "でなけりゃ 他所をあたってくれ"  
 Go bother Leonard Cohen."    	  "レナード コーエンにでも"  
 And his whole work process changed after that.    	  以降 作曲の姿勢が変わったそうです  
 Not the work, the work was still oftentimes as dark as ever.    	  作風は変わりないですが―  
 But the process, and the heavy anxiety around it  was released when he took the genie, the genius out of him  where it was causing nothing but trouble, and released it back where it came from,  and realized that this didn't have to be this internalized, tormented thing.    	  作曲の姿勢と それに伴う不安は― "ジーニアス"を出したら 消えたのです 問題の元を 本来の場所に返し― 葛藤しなくても良いと 気付きました  
 It could be this peculiar, wondrous, bizarre collaboration,  kind of conversation between Tom and the strange, external thing  that was not quite Tom.    	  奇妙で一風変わった 共同作業です 彼と 変わった外部のモノとの対話… 別モノとの対話です  
 When I heard that story, it started to shift a little bit  the way that I worked too, and this idea already saved me once.    	  この話を聞いて 私も少し― 仕事の姿勢を変え 助かったんです  
 It saved me when I was in the middle of writing "Eat, Pray, Love,"  and I fell into one of those sort of pits of despair  that we all fall into when we're working on something and it's not coming  and you start to think this is going to be a disaster, the worst book ever written.    	  あのベストセラーを執筆中― 絶望に陥ったとき― 頑張っても 上手く行かず― 悲惨な結末を考え始めました 最悪になるわ と  
 Not just bad, but the worst book ever written.    	  悪いどころか史上最悪!  
 And I started to think I should just dump this project.    	  葬ろうかと思い始めた時に―  
 But then I remembered Tom talking to the open air  and I tried it.    	  トムの話を思い出し― やってみました  
 So I just lifted my face up from the manuscript  and I directed my comments to an empty corner of the room.    	  原稿から顔を上げ― 部屋の片隅に話しかけたんです  
 And I said aloud, "Listen you, thing,  you and I both know that if this book isn't brilliant  that is not entirely my fault, right?    	  "ちょっと" と声に出して "仮に この本がイマイチでも―" "私一人の責任じゃないわよね?"  
 Because you can see that I am putting everything I have into this,  I don't have any more than this.    	  "全力投球なのは分かるでしょ?" "これ以上は無理"  
 If you want it to be better, you've got to show up and do your part of the deal.    	  "良くしたければ 役目を果たして"  
 But if you don't do that, you know what, the hell with it.    	  "その気がないなら いいわよ"  
 I'm going to keep writing anyway because that's my job.    	  "私は自分の役目を果たすだけ"  
 And I would please like the record to reflect today  that I showed up for my part of the job."    	  "しっかり書いておいてね" "私は やることやったって"  
   Because --    Because in the end it's like this, OK --  centuries ago in the deserts of North Africa,  people used to gather for these moonlight dances of sacred dance and music  that would go on for hours and hours, until dawn.    	   だって―  ご覧の通りじゃないですか? 昔 北アフリカの砂漠では― 月夜に 踊りと歌の祭典がありました 明け方まで何時間も  
 They were always magnificent, because the dancers were professionals  and they were terrific, right?    	  見事なものです　プロの踊り手は― 素晴らしいです  
 But every once in a while, very rarely, something would happen,  and one of these performers would actually become transcendent.    	  たまに ごくまれに― 踊り手が 一線を越えることがある  
 And I know you know what I'm talking about,  because I know you've all seen, at some point in your life,  It was like time would stop,  and the dancer would sort of step through some kind of portal  and he wasn't doing anything different  but everything would align.    	  何の話か お分かりですよね そんな場面に出合ったことありません? まるで時が止まり― 踊り手が ある境界を抜ける… いつもの踊りと 変わらないはずなのに― すべてが符合し―  
 And all of a sudden, he would no longer appear to be merely human.    	  突然 人間には見えなくなる  
 He would be lit from within, and lit from below  and all lit up on fire with divinity.    	  内から足元から輝き― 神々しく燃え上がるんです  
 And when this happened, back then,  people knew it for what it was, you know, they called it by its name.    	  当時の人々は そんな時― 何が起きたか察し その名を呼びます  
 They would put their hands together and they would start to chant,  "Allah, Allah, Allah, God, God, God."    	  両手を合わせて 唱え始めます "アラー アラー 神よ 神よ"  
 That's God, you know.    	  "あれは神だ" と  
 Curious historical footnote:  when the Moors invaded southern Spain, they took this custom with them  and the pronunciation changed over the centuries  from "Allah, Allah, Allah," to "Olé, olé, olé,"  which you still hear in bullfights and in flamenco dances.    	  歴史の本によると― ムーア人は南スペイン侵攻時 その慣習も持ち込みました 長年かけて発音も変わり― "アラー アラー" から "オレー オレー" へ… 今でも闘牛とフラメンコで耳にします  
 In Spain, when a performer has done something impossible and magic,  "Allah, olé, olé, Allah, magnificent, bravo,"  incomprehensible, there it is -- a glimpse of God.    	  スペインでは 演者の驚異的な動きに― "アラー オレー" "すごい! ブラボー!" 神を垣間見るんです  
 Which is great, because we need that.    	  素晴らしい　まさにこれです  
 But, the tricky bit comes the next morning,  for the dancer himself, when he wakes up and discovers  that it's Tuesday at 11 a.m., and he's no longer a glimpse of God.    	  ただし厄介なのは 翌朝です 踊り手が目覚めると― 火曜の朝11時で もう神はいません  
 He's just an aging mortal with really bad knees,  and maybe he's never going to ascend to that height again.    	  膝の悪い老いた人間が一人… 恐らく あの高みに再び上ることも―  
 And maybe nobody will ever chant God's name again as he spins,  and what is he then to do with the rest of his life?    	  回転しても 神の名を呼ぶ人もない… 残りの人生は?  
 This is hard.    	  つらいことです  
 This is one of the most painful reconciliations to make  in a creative life.    	  最も辛い現実です 創造的な人生上で…  
 But maybe it doesn't have to be quite so full of anguish  if you never happened to believe, in the first place,  that the most extraordinary aspects of your being came from you.    	  いえ そこまで酷くないかも… もし初めから 非凡な才能が自分に― 備わっていたと 信じなければ…  
 But maybe if you just believed that they were on loan to you  from some unimaginable source for some exquisite portion of your life  to be passed along when you're finished, with somebody else.    	  その力が借り物だと 思い― 謎の源から 人生に添えられ― 終えたら 他へ行くものと思えば…  
 And, you know, if we think about it this way, it starts to change everything.    	  そう考えれば 全て変わります  
 This is how I've started to think,  and this is certainly how I've been thinking in the last few months  as I've been working on the book that will soon be published,  as the dangerously, frighteningly over-anticipated follow up  to my freakish success.    	  私も そう考え始め― この数ヶ月 考え続けてきました もうすぐ出る本を 書いている間に… 危険なほど期待された最新作― 異常な成功の 次の作品です  
 And what I have to sort of keep telling myself  when I get really psyched out about that is don't be afraid.    	  自分に言い聞かせ続けました のまれそうになった時に― 恐れない  
 Don't be daunted. Just do your job.    	  ひるまない やることをやるだけ  
 Continue to show up for your piece of it, whatever that might be.    	  結果を気にせず 続けよ と  
 If your job is to dance, do your dance.    	  踊るのが仕事なら 踊るだけ  
 If the divine, cockeyed genius assigned to your case  decides to let some sort of wonderment be glimpsed, for just one moment  through your efforts, then "Olé!"    	  気まぐれな精霊が 割り当てられ― あなたの努力に対し 一瞬でも奇跡を― 見せてくれたら… "オレー!"  
 And if not, do your dance anyhow.    	  見せてくれずとも踊るだけ  
 And "Olé!" to you, nonetheless.    	  それでも 自分に"オレー" と  
 I believe this and I feel that we must teach it.    	  そう信じますし 広めませんか  
 "Olé!" to you, nonetheless,  just for having the sheer human love and stubbornness  to keep showing up.    	  それでも"オレー" と 真の人間愛と 不屈の精神を― 持ち続けることに対し…  
 Thank you.    	  有難うございました  
   Thank you.    	   ありがとう  
   June Cohen: Olé!    	   "オレー!"  
 You know, I've talked about some of these projects before --  about the human genome and what that might mean,  and discovering new sets of genes.    	  以前、これらのプロジェクトに関してお話したと思います ヒトゲノムの解読や、新しいセットの遺伝子を発見することが どのような意味を持つ事になるのかという事です  
 We're actually starting at a new point:  we've been digitizing biology,  and now we're trying to go from that digital code  into a new phase of biology  with designing and synthesizing life.    	  私たちは、更に新しい事を始めています 私たちは、生物をデジタル化してきましたが そのデジタル情報を用いて 生命のデザインや合成を行うという まったく新しい生物学を行おうとしています  
 So, we've always been trying to ask big questions.    	  私たちはいつも、大きな謎について問いかけています  
 "What is life?" is something that I think many biologists  have been trying to understand  at various levels.    	  「生命とは何か」という問いかけは、多くの生物学者が 様々な観点から理解しようと していると思います  
 We've tried various approaches,  paring it down to minimal components.    	  私たちは様々な手法を使って 生命の最小構成要素を紐解いていきました  
 We've been digitizing it now for almost 20 years;  when we sequenced the human genome,  it was going from the analog world of biology  into the digital world of the computer.    	  かれこれ20年近くデジタル化を進めています ヒトゲノムを配列決定した時 生物学は一転してアナログなものから コンピューターを用いたデジタルな学問に変化しました  
 Now we're trying to ask, "Can we regenerate life  or can we create new life  out of this digital universe?"    	  現在私たちは、このデジタルな世界の中で生命を再生させる もしくは新しい生命を創造することが 可能かどうかを問いかけています  
 This is the map of a small organism, Mycoplasma genitalium,  that has the smallest genome for a species  that can self-replicate in the laboratory,  and we've been trying to just see if  we can come up with an even smaller genome.    	  これは、マイコプラズマ ジェニタリウムという 小さな生命体のゲノム地図で 数多くの種の中でも、研究室の中で自己複製が可能な 最小ゲノムを持っています 私たちは、これ以上に小さいゲノムを  
 We're able to knock out on the order of 100 genes  out of the 500 or so that are here.    	  用意することが出来るかどうか調べました およそ500遺伝子の中から、100遺伝子単位で 遺伝子をノックアウトさせることに成功しました  
 When we look at its metabolic map,  it's relatively simple  trust me, this is simple --  but when we look at all the genes  that we can knock out one at a time,  it's very unlikely that this would yield  a living cell.    	  この代謝マップを見ると ヒトの代謝マップよりも 比較的シンプルです 信じてください、これでもシンプルなんです しかし、個別にノックアウトできる 全ての遺伝子を見渡してみると 生きた細胞を生み出す 見込みはないことがわかりました  
 So we decided the only way forward  was to actually synthesize this chromosome  so we could vary the components  And so we started down the road of:  can we synthesize a chromosome?    	  そこで、私たちはこの問題の打開策として いくつかの基本的な疑問を問いかける上でも この染色体を実際に合成し 構成要素を変えることにしました そこで、私たちはまず 「染色体を合成することは可能か」という命題に取り組みました  
 Can chemistry permit making  these really large molecules  where we've never been before?    	  果たして化学で 今まで見た事がないような 巨大分子を合成することが可能なのでしょうか  
 And if we do, can we boot up a chromosome?    	  もし可能な場合、染色体を「起動」させることは可能なのでしょうか  
 A chromosome, by the way, is just a piece of inert chemical material.    	  ちなみに、染色体は、ただの不活性化学物質に過ぎません  
 So, our pace of digitizing life has been increasing  at an exponential pace.    	  私たちの生命のデジタル化に向けた研究は 急激なペースで進展しました  
 Our ability to write the genetic code  has been moving pretty slowly  but has been increasing,  and our latest point would put it on, now, an exponential curve.    	  私たちの遺伝コードを合成する能力は そこまで早くはないものの 着実に改善されてきています そして最近の成果は、この研究を更に加速度的に進展させるでしょう  
 We started this over 15 years ago.    	  私たちはこの研究を15年前から始めました  
 It took several stages, in fact,  starting with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments.    	  実際には、最初の実験を行う前に 生命倫理に関する審査を始めとする数々の段階を踏まねばなりませんでした  
 But it turns out synthesizing DNA  is very difficult.    	  実験で分かったのは、DNAを合成することは 非常に難しいという事です  
 There are tens of thousands of machines around the world  that make small pieces of DNA --  30 to 50 letters in length --  and it's a degenerate process, so the longer you make the piece,  the more errors there are. So we had to create a new method  for putting these little pieces together and correct all the errors.    	  世界には、30から50塩基程度の小さなDNAの断片を 合成する装置が何万台も 存在していますが DNAが変質しやすい関係上、長いDNA断片を合成すればするほど 多くのエラーを含んだ断片が出来てしまいます そこで、これらの小さな断片を結合させ、全てのエラーを修正させる  
 And this was our first attempt, starting with the digital information  of the genome of phi X174.    	  全く新しい手法を開発しなければなりませんでした これは、Phi X 174ゲノムのデジタル情報を元にゲノムを人工合成した 私たちの初めての取り組みです  
 It's a small virus that kills bacteria.    	  これは、細菌を殺す小さなウイルスです  
 We designed the pieces, went through our error correction  and had a DNA molecule  of about 5,000 letters.    	  私たちは、DNA断片を設計し、エラーの修正過程を経て およそ、5000塩基程のDNA分子を 合成することに成功しました  
 The exciting phase came when we took this piece of inert chemical  and put it in the bacteria,  and the bacteria started to read this genetic code,  made the viral particles.    	  最も興奮したのは、この不活性化学分子を細菌の細胞内に 注入した時に、細菌がその遺伝コードを 自発的に読み込み、ウイルス粒子が 産生された時でした  
 The viral particles then were released from the cells  and came back and killed the E. coli.    	  このウイルス粒子は細胞外に放出され 再び細胞内に侵入した後、大腸菌を殺したのです  
 I was talking to the oil industry recently  and I said they clearly understood that model.    	  私は最近、石油業界の方々に対して講演を行いましたが 彼らはこのモデルを明快に理解したと言っていました  
   They laughed more than you guys are.   And so, we think this is a situation  where the software can actually build its own hardware  in a biological system.    	   彼らは皆さん以上に笑っていましたよ これは、生体システムにおいて ソフトウェアが自身のハードウェアを構築することができる 状況に他なりません  
 But we wanted to go much larger:  we wanted to build the entire bacterial chromosome --  it's over 580,000 letters of genetic code --  so we thought we'd build them in cassettes the size of the viruses  so we could actually vary the cassettes  to understand  what the actual components of a living cell are.    	  しかし、私たちはもっと先を見据えていました 細菌の染色体をまるごと作成したかったのです これは、58万文字もの遺伝コードに相当します そこで、私たちはウイルスサイズのカセット型人工染色体を作り それらを実際に変化させることで 生きた細胞の 構成要素とは何であるか理解しようと考えました  
 Design is critical,  and if you're starting with digital information in the computer,  that digital information has to be really accurate.    	  染色体のデザインは決定的に重要あり 生命のデジタル情報をコンピューター上で設計する為には その情報は非常に精確でなければなりません  
 When we first sequenced this genome in 1995,  the standard of accuracy was one error per 10,000 base pairs.    	  私たちがはじめてこのゲノムの塩基配列を1995年に決定した時 その精度は、10万塩基につき、1塩基の誤差が含まれるものでした  
 We actually found, on resequencing it,  30 errors; had we used that original sequence,  it never would have been able to be booted up.    	  私たちは、再度配列決定を行った際 実際に30塩基のエラーを見つけました　オリジナルの配列を利用していたら 人工染色体は生体内で機能しなかったでしょう  
 Part of the design is designing pieces  that are 50 letters long  that have to overlap with all the other 50-letter pieces  to build smaller subunits  we have to design so they can go together.    	  設計の一環としては 50塩基長の配列が、他の50塩基長の配列と 重複することで小さなサブユニットを 形成するようにしていることです それぞれの配列が互いに重なり合うように設計しなければなりません  
 We design unique elements into this.    	  私たちはこれにユニークな要素を加えました  
 You may have read that we put watermarks in.    	  透かしを入れたのです  
 Think of this:  we have a four-letter genetic code -- A, C, G and T.    	  つまりこういう事です 遺伝コードは、A、C、G、Tの4文字です  
 Triplets of those letters  code for roughly 20 amino acids,  such that there's a single letter designation  for each of the amino acids.    	  そのうちの3文字の組み合わせで およそ20のアミノ酸に対応します それぞれのアミノ酸には、一文字の記号が 指定されています  
 So we can use the genetic code to write out words,  sentences, thoughts.    	  これにより、遺伝コードを用いて単語や、文章を ゲノムに埋め込むことが出来るのです  
 Initially, all we did was autograph it.    	  私たちが最初に行ったのは、自分たちの名前を埋め込む事でした  
 Some people were disappointed there was not poetry.    	  ある人々は詩を埋め込まなかった事に落胆したようです  
 We designed these pieces so  we can just chew back with enzymes;  there are enzymes that repair them and put them together.    	  私たちは、これらの断片を 酵素を用いてつなぎ合わせられるように設計しました これらの断片を修正しつつ、つなぎ合わせる酵素が存在します  
 And we started making pieces,  starting with pieces that were 5,000 to 7,000 letters,  put those together to make 24,000-letter pieces,  then put sets of those going up to 72,000.    	  このような手順で、私たちはまず 5千塩基から7千塩基長までの断片を用意し それらを繋ぎ合わせて、2万4千塩基長の断片を作り それぞれのセットを元に7万2千塩基長までの断片を作りました  
 At each stage, we grew up these pieces in abundance  so we could sequence them  because we're trying to create a process that's extremely robust  that you can see in a minute. We're trying to get to the point of automation.    	  それぞれの工程で、断片を多量に作ることで それらの配列決定ができるようにしました なぜなら、私たちは一目で分かるような 非常に頑強な合成プロセスの構築を目指しているからです この工程が自動化されるレベルにまで到達できることを目指しています  
 So, this looks like a basketball playoff.    	  これは、まるでバスケットボールのプレイオフのように見えます  
 When we get into these really large pieces  over 100,000 base pairs,  they won't any longer grow readily in E. coli --  it exhausts all the modern tools of molecular biology --  and so we turned to other mechanisms.    	  このように、10万塩基もの巨大な断片が 合成される段階に入ると たやすく大腸菌内に合成されなくなってしまいます 分子生物における最新手法が通用しないことから 私たちは他のメカニズムに目を向けました  
 We knew there's a mechanism called homologous recombination  that biology uses to repair DNA  that can put pieces together.    	  生物には、自身のDNAをつなげ、修復する 相同組み替えというメカニズムが 存在します  
 Here's an example of it:  there's an organism called  that can take three millions rads of radiation.    	  これはその例です 300万ラドの 放射線に耐えられる デイノコッカス ラディオデュランスという生物がいます  
 You can see in the top panel, its chromosome just gets blown apart.    	  図の上半分を見て頂くと、染色体が粉々になっていることがわかります  
 Twelve to 24 hours later, it put it  back together exactly as it was before.    	  12時間から24時間後 染色体は以前と同じように修復されます  
 We have thousands of organisms that can do this.    	  多くの生物種はこのような特徴をもっています  
 These organisms can be totally desiccated;  they can live in a vacuum.    	  これらは完全な乾燥状態を生き抜くことが可能で 真空でも生きることが出来ます  
 I am absolutely certain that life can exist in outer space,  move around, find a new aqueous environment.    	  私は、生物が宇宙空間に存在し、移動して、新しい水性の環境を 見つけ出す事ができることを確信しています  
 In fact, NASA has shown a lot of this is out there.    	  実際に、NASAは宇宙に生物が存在する説を多く提示しています  
 Here's an actual micrograph of the molecule we built  using these processes, actually just using yeast mechanisms  with the right design of the pieces we put them in;  yeast puts them together automatically.    	  これは私たちがこれらのプロセスを用いて合成した分子の 実際の顕微鏡写真です　イースト菌のメカニズムを利用し デザインした染色体の断片を細胞内に送り込みました イースト菌はそれらを自動的に繋げ合わせました  
 This is not an electron micrograph;  this is just a regular photomicrograph.    	  これは電子顕微鏡写真ではなく 光学顕微鏡写真です  
 It's such a large molecule  we can see it with a light microscope.    	  あまりにも巨大な分子のため 光学顕微鏡で見ることができます  
 These are pictures over about a six-second period.    	  これらの写真は大体6秒間隔で撮影されました  
 So, this is the publication we had just a short while ago.    	  これはつい最近、私たちが発表したものです  
 This is over 580,000 letters of genetic code;  it's the largest molecule ever made by humans of a defined structure.    	  これは58万塩基以上もの遺伝コードで構成されています 人類の手によって生み出された最大の分子であり  
 It's over 300 million molecular weight.    	  分子量は、3億以上です  
 If we printed it out at a 10 font with no spacing,  it takes 142 pages  just to print this genetic code.    	  もし、スペース無しでフォントサイズを10に指定し印刷した場合 この遺伝コードを 印刷するだけで、142ページ必要となります  
 Well, how do we boot up a chromosome? How do we activate this?    	  それでは、この染色体を機能させるにはどうすればよいでしょうか  
 Obviously, with a virus it's pretty simple;  it's much more complicated dealing with bacteria.    	  ウイルスの場合は非常に簡単です 細菌を扱う場合は、はるかに複雑になります  
 It's also simpler when you go  into eukaryotes like ourselves:  you can just pop out the nucleus  and pop in another one,  and that's what you've all heard about with cloning.    	  私たちのように 真核生物の場合も簡単です 細胞から細胞核を抜き出し 別の細胞核を入れるという 皆さんがご存知のクローン技術を行うのです  
 With bacteria and Archaea, the chromosome is integrated into the cell,  but we recently showed that we can do a complete transplant  of a chromosome from one cell to another  and activate it.    	  細菌や古細菌の場合は、染色体は細胞内に一体化しているのですが 最近、私たちは、細胞内の染色体を 別の細胞に完全に移植し、機能させることが できることを証明しました  
 We purified a chromosome from one microbial species --  roughly, these two are as distant as human and mice --  we added a few extra genes  so we could select for this chromosome,  we digested it with enzymes  to kill all the proteins,  and it was pretty stunning when we put this in the cell --  our very sophisticated graphics here. The new chromosome went into the cell.    	  私たちは、まず単一の微生物種の染色体を精製しました 大雑把に言うと、移植先と移植元は、ヒトとマウスと同じくらい異なる種です 次に私たちは、この染色体を選択的に抽出できるように 新たにいくつかの遺伝子を加えました そして不要なタンパク質を取り除くため 酵素を用いました 私たちの高度に洗練されたイラストに対して 皆さんは感心されるかと思いますが この染色体を細胞内に加えた時の瞬間は驚くべきものでした この新しい染色体は見事に、細胞内に移植されたのです  
 In fact, we thought this might be as far as it went,  but we tried to design the process a little bit further.    	  実は、私たちはこの段階で行ける所まで行ったと 考えていましたが、更に先の過程まで取り組む事にしました  
 This is a major mechanism of evolution right here. We find all kinds of species  that have taken up a second chromosome  or a third one from somewhere,  adding thousands of new traits  in a second to that species.    	  皆さんがご覧になっているのは進化の主要なメカニズムそのものです どこからともなく、2つ目や3つ目の 染色体を自身の細胞に取り込み 数千種類もの新しい特性を 即座に獲得したあらゆる種類の種を  
 So, people who think of evolution  as just one gene changing at a time  have missed much of biology.    	  今までに発見しています 進化というものを、単一の遺伝子が一つずつ 変化するものであると考えられている人たちは 生物学のほんの一面しかご存知ないものと思われます  
 There are enzymes called restriction enzymes  that actually digest DNA.    	  DNAを切断する制限酵素という 酵素が存在します  
 The chromosome that was in the cell  doesn't have one;  the chromosome we put in does.    	  細胞内における既存の染色体には 制限酵素遺伝子は存在しませんでしたが 細胞内に加えた染色体には存在しました  
 It got expressed and it recognized  the other chromosome as foreign material,  chewed it up, and so we ended up  just with a cell with the new chromosome.    	  その制限酵素遺伝子が発現し 既存の染色体を異物と認識して切断した為 最終的には、新しく導入した染色体のみが 細胞内に存在することになりました  
 It turned blue because of the genes we put in it.    	  青色に染まったのは私たちが加えた遺伝子に関係します  
 And with a very short period of time,  all the characteristics of one species were lost and it converted totally into the new species  based on the new software that we put in the cell.    	  そして非常に短い時間のうちに 元の生物種が持っていた全ての特徴は失われ 私たちが細胞内に導入した新しいソフトウェアによって まったく新しい生物種に生まれ変わったのです  
 All the proteins changed,  the membranes changed;  when we read the genetic code, it's exactly what we had transferred in.    	  全てのタンパク質は変化し 細胞膜も変化しました 遺伝コードを配列解析したとき、それは私たちが移植した染色体そのものでした  
 So, this may sound like genomic alchemy,  but we can, by moving the software of DNA around,  change things quite dramatically.    	  まるでゲノムを対象とした錬金術に聞こえるかもしれませんが ソフトウェアとしてのDNAを移し替える事によって 細胞の性質を劇的に変化させることが出来るのです  
 Now I've argued, this is not genesis;  this is building on three and a half billion years of evolution.    	  これは生命を単純に生み出す研究ではありません 35億年もの進化の上に作られた研究であることを私は先ほど言いました  
 And I've argued that we're about to perhaps  create a new version of the Cambrian explosion,  where there's massive new speciation  based on this digital design.    	  そして、私たちはもうすぐ このデジタルデザインを元に 膨大な種の分化に伴う 新しいタイプのカンブリア爆発を引き起こすことになるでしょう  
 Why do this?    	  なぜこのような事を研究するのでしょうか  
 I think this is pretty obvious in terms of some of the needs.    	  この研究にはいくつかのニーズがあることから理由は明確だと思います  
 We're about to go from six and a half  to nine billion people over the next 40 years.    	  次の40年の間に人口は 65億人から90億人まで増加すると予測されています  
 To put it in context for myself:  I was born in 1946.    	  私自身を例としますと 私は1946年生まれです  
 There are now three people on the planet  for every one of us that existed in 1946;  within 40 years, there'll be four.    	  今は、この星に住む人々の中で 三人に一人は、1946年の頃を生きた世代です 40年後には四人に一人という数になります  
 We have trouble feeding, providing fresh, clean water,  medicines, fuel  for the six and a half billion.    	  65億人を対象として、全員に安全な水と 薬や、燃料を 提供することは困難な状態です  
 It's going to be a stretch to do it for nine.    	  90億人になったら更に困難が予想されます  
 We use over five billion tons of coal,  30 billion-plus barrels of oil --  that's a hundred million barrels a day.    	  私たちは、50億トンもの石炭を消費し 300億バレル以上もの石油を消費します これは、一日1億バレルの消費量に相当します  
 When we try to think of biological processes  or any process to replace that,  it's going to be a huge challenge.    	  この状況を解決する生物学的プロセスや 別のプロセスを考えた時 それは、途方もなく大きな挑戦になるでしょう  
 Then of course, there's all that  CO2 from this material  that ends up in the atmosphere.    	  そして、当然のことながら、それらの 物質から大気中に二酸化炭素が 排出されることとなります  
 We now, from our discovery around the world,  have a database with about 20 million genes,  and I like to think of these as the design components of the future.    	  私たちは現在、世界中の発見によって およそ2千万の遺伝子のデータベースを持っていますが これらを私は、未来への構成要素であると考えています  
 The electronics industry only had a dozen or so components,  and look at the diversity that came out of that.    	  エレクトロニクス産業において、ほんの一握りの構成要素から 生まれた多様性に目を向けてみてください  
 We're limited here primarily by a biological reality  and our imagination.    	  私たちは、生物学的現実と 私たち自身の想像力によって  
 We now have techniques,  because of these rapid methods of synthesis,  to do what we're calling combinatorial genomics.    	  最初から制約を設けてしまっています 今、私たちは結合ゲノミクスと私たちが呼ぶ 新しい研究領域の基礎となる  
 We have the ability now to build a large robot  that can make a million chromosomes a day.    	  高速な化学物質の合成技術を持っています 今では、一日で100万もの染色体を 生成する巨大ロボットを製造する能力も私達は持ち合わせています  
 When you think of processing these 20 million different genes  or trying to optimize processes  to produce octane or to produce pharmaceuticals,  new vaccines,  we can just with a small team,  do more molecular biology  than the last 20 years of all science.    	  2千万種類の異なる遺伝子を選別したり オクタンや、新しいワクチンをはじめ、薬剤を生成するために 代謝経路を最適化しようと考える場合 私たちは ほんの少人数の研究チームと 分子生物学的実験を行うことで この20年間で蓄積された科学以上の成果を上げる事が出来ます  
 And it's just standard selection:  we can select for viability,  chemical or fuel production,  vaccine production, etc.    	  様々なデザインの選択が可能となります 生存能力の向上をはじめ 化学物質や燃料生成 ワクチン生成など、様々なデザインの選択が可能です  
 This is a screen snapshot  of some true design software that we're working on to actually be able to sit down  and design species in the computer.    	  これは、私たちが開発している 生物のデザインソフトウェアの画面ショットで 生物種の設計をコンピューター上で  
 You know, we don't know necessarily what it'll look like:  we know exactly what their genetic code looks like.    	  椅子に座りながら取り組むことができるものです その生物種が実際どのような姿となるのかは、分かりかねますが その生物種の遺伝コードがどのような配列を持っているかは、確実に分かります  
 We're focusing on now fourth-generation fuels.    	  私たちは、今、第4世代の燃料に関心を寄せています  
 You've seen recently, corn to ethanol  is just a bad experiment.    	  最近は、トウモロコシからエタノールを精製することが 非常に効率の悪い実験であることを、皆さんもご存知のはずです  
 We have second- and third-generation fuels that will be coming out relatively soon  that are sugar, to much higher-value fuels  like octane or different types of butanol.    	  砂糖からもっと高付加価値の燃料である オクタンや、ブタノールなど 第2、第3世代の燃料が  
 But the only way we think that biology  can have a major impact without  further increasing the cost of food and limiting its availability  is if we start with CO2 as its feedstock,  and so we're working with designing cells to go down this road.    	  近々登場することになると思います 一方、私たちが考える 食料の生産コストの増大と供給量の制限をかけない 効果的な生物学的手法は 二酸化炭素を原料にする所から始まります 現在私たちは、この目的に即した細胞を設計しており  
 And we think we'll have the first fourth-generation fuels  in about 18 months.    	  第四世代の燃料を18ヶ月後には発表できると 考えています  
 Sunlight and CO2 is one method ...    	  日光と二酸化炭素を利用するのは一つの手法ですが  
   but in our discovery around the world,  we have all kinds of other methods.    	   私たちの発見によって 様々な別の手法も利用できるようになりました  
 This is an organism we described in 1996.    	  これは、1996年に私たちが発表した生物種です  
 It lives in the deep ocean,  about a mile and a half deep,  almost at boiling-water temperatures.    	  1.5マイル程の深海において 熱湯に近い水温の中で 生息しています  
 It takes CO2 to methane  using molecular hydrogen as its energy source.    	  この生物種は二酸化炭素を 水素分子をエネルギー源として、メタンを生成します  
 We're looking to see if we can take  captured CO2,  which can easily be piped to sites,  convert that CO2 back into fuel  to drive this process.    	  私たちは、いくつかの場所から 収集した 二酸化炭素を簡単に一カ所に集め それらを燃料に変換することが 可能かどうか研究を続けています  
 So, in a short period of time,  what the basic question is of "What is life?"    	  非常に短期間の間に 「生命とは何か」という命題を  
 We truly, you know,  have modest goals  of replacing the whole petrol-chemical industry --     Yeah. If you can't do that at TED, where can you? --    become a major source of energy ...    	  より深めることになると私たちは考えます 皆さんもご存知のように 私たちは全ての石油化学産業を 入れ替えるという非常に控えめな目標を持っています   ええ、TEDで出来なければ、どこでやれるでしょうか  エネルギー源の主要な生産手法となることの他に  
 But also, we're now working on using these same tools  to come up with instant sets of vaccines.    	  更に私たちは同じ技術を用いて ワクチンの即時生産手法の開発を行っています  
 You've seen this year with flu;  we're always a year behind and a dollar short  when it comes to the right vaccine.    	  この年はインフルエンザの流行が記憶に新しい所ですが 私たちは、いつも効果のあるワクチンを用意するまでに 予算面でも一年出遅れてしまいます  
 I think that can be changed by building combinatorial vaccines in advance.    	  これは、前もって組み合わせワクチンを  
 Here's what the future may begin to look like  with changing, now, the evolutionary tree, speeding up evolution  with synthetic bacteria, Archaea  and, eventually, eukaryotes.    	  設計しておくことで事態は変わると考えます これは、将来の生物進化系統樹を示すものです 合成細菌、合成古細菌、そしていずれは登場するであろう 合成真核生物により 新しい進化系統樹を示しています  
 We're a ways away from improving people:  our goal is just to make sure that we have a chance  to survive long enough to maybe do that. Thank you very much.    	  人間を改良するという目標は果てしなく遠い道のりです 私たちの目標は、今後その目標に到達できるまで 長生きすることです　ありがとうございました  
 What I'm going to show you first, as quickly as I can,  is some foundational work, some new technology  that we brought to Microsoft as part of an acquisition  almost exactly a year ago.    	  最初に手早く基盤技術をお見せします ちょうど１年前に買収の一部として Microsoft社にもっていった新テクノロジーです。 これはSeadragonで  
 This is Seadragon, and it's an environment  in which you can either locally or remotely interact with vast amounts of visual data.    	  ローカルあるいはリモートにある膨大な量の ビジュアルデータを操作可能にする環境です。  
 We're looking at many, many gigabytes of digital photos here  and kind of seamlessly and continuously zooming in,  panning through it, rearranging it in any way we want.    	  ご覧のように、 何ギガバイトものデジタル写真を スムーズに連続的に ズームインしたり パンしたり 自由にアレンジし直したりできます。  
 And it doesn't matter how much information we're looking at,  how big these collections are or how big the images are.    	  見ている情報の多さ、コレクションの規模 画像の大きさなどは問題ではありません。  
 Most of them are ordinary digital camera photos,  but this one, for example, is a scan from the Library of Congress,  and it's in the 300 megapixel range.    	  ほとんどはデジカメで撮った写真ですが これは、米国議会図書館からスキャンしたもので 300メガピクセルほどあります。  
 It doesn't make any difference  because the only thing that ought to limit the performance of a system like this one  is the number of pixels on your screen at any given moment.    	  でも何の違いもありません。 なぜなら、 このシステムのパフォーマンスを制限するものは 画面表示のピクセル数だけだからです。  
 It's also very flexible architecture.    	  また 大変柔軟なアーキテクチャになっています  
 This is an entire book, so this is an example of non-image data.    	  これはまるまる１冊の本です。　画像ではないデータの１例です。  
 This is "Bleak House" by Dickens. Every column is a chapter.    	  ディケンズの“荒涼館”です。 　各段が章です。  
 To prove to you that it's really text, and not an image,  we can do something like so, to really show  that this is a real representation of the text; it's not a picture.    	  これは本当にテキストであり、 画像ではありません。 テキストだという証拠に こんな事ができます。画像ではありません。  
 Maybe this is an artificial way to read an e-book.    	  e-ブックを読む手段にも なるかもしれませんが  
 I wouldn't recommend it.    	  お奨めはしません。  
 This is a more realistic case, an issue of The Guardian.    	  これはもっと実用的な例で、ガーディアン紙 １部分のデータです。  
 Every large image is the beginning of a section.    	  大きい写真は皆、 項目の始めです。  
 And this really gives you the joy and the good experience  of reading the real paper version of a magazine or a newspaper,  which is an inherently multi-scale kind of medium.    	  本物の印刷版の雑誌や新聞を読む 楽しい経験を与えてくれます。 　新聞や雑誌というのは 本質的に多重スケールの メディアなのです。  
 We've done something  with the corner of this particular issue of The Guardian.    	  この紙面の隅に ちょっとした仕掛けをしました。  
 We've made up a fake ad that's very high resolution --  much higher than in an ordinary ad --  and we've embedded extra content.    	  大変高い解像度のニセモノの広告をでっちあげました。 普通の広告より、ずっと高い解像度です。 追加のコンテンツも足しました。  
 If you want to see the features of this car, you can see it here.    	  車の特徴をここで ご覧いただけます。  
 Or other models, or even technical specifications.    	  ほかのモデル、 あるいは技術仕様まであります。  
 And this really gets at some of these ideas  about really doing away with those limits on screen real estate.    	  こういったアイデアによって 画面サイズという制限をなくせます。  
 We hope that this means no more pop-ups  and other rubbish like that -- shouldn't be necessary.    	  これによりポップアップなど 不必要なガラクタをなくせればと願っています。  
 Of course, mapping is one of those obvious applications  for a technology like this.    	  もちろん地図にも このテクノロジーは 応用できます。  
 And this one I really won't spend any time on,  except to say that we have things to contribute to this field as well.    	  今回は 時間を取れませんが この領域にも使えるとだけ言っておきます。  
 But those are all the roads in the U.S.    	  これは NASAの衛星画像の上に  
 superimposed on top of a NASA geospatial image.    	  米国のすべての道路を重ね合わせたものです。  
 So let's pull up, now, something else.    	  ほかのものを見てみましょう。  
 This is actually live on the Web now; you can go check it out.    	  これは現在ウェブで見られるので、確認してください。  
 This is a project called Photosynth, which marries two different technologies.    	  Photosynthといって ２つの技術からなります  
 One of them is Seadragon  and the other is some very beautiful computer-vision research  done by Noah Snavely, a graduate student at the University of Washington,  co-advised by Steve Seitz at U.W.    	  ひとつは、Seadragon もうひとつは ワシントン大学の大学院生 ノア スネーヴェリが 同大学の スティーブ サイツと  
 and Rick Szeliski at Microsoft Research. A very nice collaboration.    	  Microsoft Researchのリック セリスキーの指導の下で行った コンピューター ビジョンの研究です。  
 And so this is live on the Web. It's powered by Seadragon.    	  ウェブで公開され、Seadragonを使っています。  
 You can see that when we do these sorts of views,  where we can dive through images  and have this kind of multi-resolution experience.    	  画像の中に飛び込んで、このような 見方もできますし 多重のスケールも体験できます  
 But the spatial arrangement of the images here is actually meaningful.    	  この画像の空間的配置には意味があります。  
 The computer vision algorithms have registered these images together  so that they correspond to the real space in which these shots --  all taken near Grassi Lakes in the Canadian Rockies --  all these shots were taken.    	  このコンピューター ビジョン アルゴリズムは、このような画像を 撮影された実際の場所に対応させて登録します。 全てカナディアンロッキーのグラッシーレイクで 撮影されており、 連続したスライドショーや  
 So you see elements here of stabilized slide-show or panoramic imaging,  and these things have all been related spatially.    	  パノラマ風のイメージの要素を見ると 全てが空間的に関連づけられています。  
 I'm not sure if I have time to show you any other environments.    	  別の場所も見ている時間はなさそうですが もっと空間を感じさせる  
 Some are much more spatial.    	  例もあります。  
 I would like to jump straight to one of Noah's original data-sets --  this is from an early prototype that we first got working this summer --  to show you what I think  is really the punch line behind the Photosynth technology,  It's not necessarily so apparent  from looking at the environments we've put up on the website.    	  ノア氏のオリジナルのデータセットのひとつに進みましょう。 これはその夏に作業を始めた Photosynthの初期プロトのデータで Photosynthのテクノロジーの 本質がこれでわかると思います。 ウェブサイトに載せた環境を見るだけでは  
 We had to worry about the lawyers and so on.    	  あまり良く わからないかもしれません。  
 This is a reconstruction of Notre Dame Cathedral  that was done entirely computationally from images scraped from Flickr.    	  法的な制約があるものですから。 Flickr画像から ノートルダム寺院をコンピューターで再現しました。  
 You just type Notre Dame into Flickr,  and you get some pictures of guys in T-shirts, and of the campus and so on.    	  Flickrで"Notre Dame"とタイプすると Tシャツを着た人たちや キャンパスの画像などが出てきます。  
 And each of these orange cones represents an image  that was discovered to belong to this model.    	  小さなオレンジの円錐は、それぞれこのモデルに適合することが 見出された画像を示しています。  
 And so these are all Flickr images,  and they've all been related spatially in this way.    	  全てFlickrの画像です。 このように皆、空間的に関連づけられています。  
 We can just navigate in this very simple way.    	  簡単にナビゲートしていけます。  
   You know, I never thought that I'd end up working at Microsoft.    	  （拍手） 私もMicrosoftで仕事するなんて  
 It's very gratifying to have this kind of reception here.    	  思ってもいませんでした。 　こんなに好評だなんて驚いています。  
   I guess you can see this is lots of different types of cameras:  it's everything from cell-phone cameras to professional SLRs,  quite a large number of them, stitched together in this environment.    	   ご推察のとおり いろいろなタイプのカメラがあります。 携帯電話のカメラから プロ用の一眼レフまでの 多数の写真を この環境でつなぎ合わせています。  
 If I can find some of the sort of weird ones --  So many of them are occluded by faces, and so on.    	  変わりダネを探してみましょう。 顔が写ったものもたくさんあります。  
 Somewhere in here there is actually a series of photographs -- here we go.    	  確かこの辺の 写真の中に…ありました  
 This is actually a poster of Notre Dame that registered correctly.    	  ノートルダムのポスターです。 　こんなのでも認識できました。  
 We can dive in from the poster  to a physical view of this environment.    	  このポスターから この環境に飛び込むことができます。  
 What the point here really is is that we can do things with the social environment.    	  これは社会的環境だという点が重要です。  
 This is now taking data from everybody --  from the entire collective memory, visually, of what the Earth looks like --  and link all of that together.    	  データをあらゆる人から得ています。 地球の姿への 集合的記憶全体からデータを取り 全てをリンクします。  
 Those photos become linked, and they make something emergent  that's greater than the sum of the parts.    	  全ての写真がリンクされることで 新たなものが現れます 部分の集まりよりも 価値のあるものです。  
 You have a model that emerges of the entire Earth.    	  地球全体から立ち現れるモデルを手にしています。  
 Think of this as the long tail to Stephen Lawler's Virtual Earth work.    	  スティーブン ローラーの “バーチャルアース”の続きのようなものです。  
 And this is something that grows in complexity as people use it,  and whose benefits become greater to the users as they use it.    	  人々が利用するにつれ複雑に成長します。 ユーザーが利用するにつれ利点が 大きくなります。  
 Their own photos are getting tagged with meta-data that somebody else entered.    	  ユーザー自身の写真に他の人が入力した  
 If somebody bothered to tag all of these saints  and say who they all are, then my photo of Notre Dame Cathedral  suddenly gets enriched with all of that data,  and I can use it as an entry point to dive into that space,  into that meta-verse, using everybody else's photos,  and do a kind of a cross-modal  and cross-user social experience that way.    	  メタデータが埋め込まれます。 誰かが聖人達のデータを埋めこんでおけば 私のノートルダム寺院の写真が そのデータにより、 更に豊かなものになります。 そこを入り口にして この空間に飛び込み みんなの写真が作る仮想空間の中で 様式やユーザーの垣根を超えた 社会的体験ができます。  
 And of course, a by-product of all of that is immensely rich virtual models  of every interesting part of the Earth,  collected not just from overhead flights and from satellite images  and so on, but from the collective memory.    	  副産物は、もちろん 地球の興味深い場所全ての きわめて豊かなバーチャルモデルです。 航空写真や、 衛星画像を集めただけのものではなく 集合的記憶を集めたものなのです。  
 Thank you so much.    	  ありがとうございました。  
    Chris Anderson: Do I understand this right?    	  （拍手） 僕の理解は正しいですか？　あなたのソフトウェアで、  
 What your software is going to allow,  all the pictures that are shared by anyone across the world  are going to link together?    	  ここ２～３年のうちに 世界中の誰でも全ての写真を共有し リンクできるようになるのですか？  
 BAA: Yes. What this is really doing is discovering,  creating hyperlinks, if you will, between images.    	  ええ、 やろうとしているのは実は発見です。 画像間にハイパーリンクを作成しています。  
 It's doing that based on the content inside the images.    	  画像の内容を元に  
 And that gets really exciting when you think about the richness  of the semantic information a lot of images have.    	  それを行います。 多くの写真が持っている意味的情報の豊かさを考えれば、  
 Like when you do a web search for images,  you type in phrases, and the text on the web page is carrying a lot of information  about what that picture is of.    	  これはとても すごい事です。 たとえば画像のウェブ検索を行う時、 言葉を入力しますよね。 　ウェブ上のテキストは その画像が何であるかについて多くの情報を持っています。  
 What if that picture links to all of your pictures?    	  では写真がすべてリンクし合うようになったら？  
 The amount of semantic interconnection and richness  that comes out of that is really huge.    	  意味の相互のつながりと、 そこから出てくる 豊かさは実に大きい。  
 It's a classic network effect.    	  典型的なネットワーク効果が現れます。  
 CA: Truly incredible. Congratulations.    	  ブレイスさん、 実にすばらしい。 　やりましたね。 ありがとうございます。  
 You know, one of the intense pleasures of travel  and one of the delights of ethnographic research  is the opportunity to live amongst those  who have not forgotten the old ways,  who still feel their past in the wind,  touch it in stones polished by rain,  taste it in the bitter leaves of plants.    	  旅の大きな楽しみの１つであり また民族誌学の調査をする喜びの１つは 昔ながらの暮らしを忘れていない人々と 共に暮らすことです 彼らは いまも 風の中に 雨に打たれ磨かれた石に そして葉の苦味の中に 過去を感じる人々です  
 Just to know that Jaguar shamans still journey beyond the Milky Way,  or the myths of the Inuit elders still resonate with meaning,  or that in the Himalaya,  the Buddhists still pursue the breath of the Dharma,  is to really remember the central revelation of anthropology,  and that is the idea that the world in which we live  does not exist in some absolute sense,  but is just one model of reality,    	  ジャガーシャーマンが いまも天の川を越えて旅をし イヌイット族の古老の神話が いまも強烈な意味を持ち ヒマラヤでは 仏教徒が いまも 「法」のしるしを探し求めている — こういった事を知ることこそ 人類学の最も重要な発見を 思い起こすことでもあります その発見とは 私たちの住む世界が 絶対的なものとして 存在するのではなく 現実の形の１つ—  
 the consequence of one particular set of adaptive choices  that our lineage made, albeit successfully, many generations ago.    	  何世代も前に 我々の祖先が 適応するために選び うまくいった選択肢の組み合わせの 結果に過ぎないのだという概念です  
 And of course, we all share the same adaptive imperatives.    	  もちろん 適応は全人類に共通して 不可欠なものです  
 We're all born. We all bring our children into the world.    	  私たちは皆 誰かから生まれ また子を産みます  
 We go through initiation rites.    	  皆 通過儀礼を経験します  
 We have to deal with the inexorable separation of death,  so it shouldn't surprise us that we all sing, we all dance,  we all have art.    	  皆 避けがたい死別を耐えます ですから どの文化にも 歌があり 踊りがあり 芸術があることは 驚きではありません  
 But what's interesting is the unique cadence of the song,  the rhythm of the dance in every culture.    	  でも面白いのは それぞれの文化に固有の 歌や踊りのリズムがあることです  
 And whether it is the Penan in the forests of Borneo,  or the Voodoo acolytes in Haiti,  or the warriors in the Kaisut desert of Northern Kenya,  the Curandero in the mountains of the Andes,  or a caravanserai in the middle of the Sahara --  this is incidentally the fellow that I traveled into the desert with  a month ago --  or indeed a yak herder in the slopes of Qomolangma,    	  ボルネオ島の森林のペナン族も ハイチのブードゥー教の信者たちも ケニア北部にあるカイスット砂漠の戦士たちも アンデス山脈の呪医 クランデロも サハラのキャラバンサライの隊商も 皆そうです これは私が１ヶ月前に砂漠を 一緒に旅した人です これは世界の地母神であるエベレスト  
 Everest, the goddess mother of the world.    	  チョモランマの斜面に住むヤク飼いです  
 All of these peoples teach us that there are other ways of being,  other ways of thinking,  other ways of orienting yourself in the Earth.    	  彼らが皆 私たちに教えてくれるのは 世界には 別のあり方 考え方 地球上での居場所の見つけ方が 他にもあるということです  
 And this is an idea, if you think about it,  can only fill you with hope.    	  このような考え方は 私たちを ただ希望で満たしてくれます  
 Now, together the myriad cultures of the world  make up a web of spiritual life and cultural life  that envelops the planet,  and is as important to the well-being of the planet  as indeed is the biological web of life that you know as a biosphere.    	  世界中の無数の文化が織りなす 精神生活と文化生活は この星を包み込み 幸福に導く大切な要素です 生物圏 すなわち生物の織りなす世界も やはり同様に大切です  
 And you might think of this cultural web of life  as being an ethnosphere,  and you might define the ethnosphere  as being the sum total of all thoughts and dreams, myths,  ideas, inspirations, intuitions brought into being  by the human imagination since the dawn of consciousness.    	  この文化が織りなす世界を 「民族文化圏」と考えてもいいでしょう 民族文化圏とは 人間の意識のあけぼの以来 想像力により生み出された あらゆる考え、夢や神話 発想、インスピレーションや直観の 総和と定義できるでしょう  
 The ethnosphere is humanity's great legacy.    	  民俗文化圏は 人類の素晴らしい遺産です  
 It's the symbol of all that we are  and all that we can be as an astonishingly inquisitive species.    	  それは 驚くほど好奇心の強い種である— 人類全体のあり方や可能性を 象徴しています  
 And just as the biosphere has been severely eroded,  so too is the ethnosphere  -- and, if anything, at a far greater rate.    	  生物圏が激しく侵されてしまったのと同様に 民族文化圏も— しかも もっと急速に 侵食されています  
 No biologists, for example, would dare suggest  that 50 percent of all species or more have been or are  on the brink of extinction because it simply is not true,  and yet that -- the most apocalyptic scenario  in the realm of biological diversity --  scarcely approaches what we know to be the most optimistic scenario  in the realm of cultural diversity.    	  全ての種の50％以上が絶滅の危機に 瀕していると言う生物学者はいません 事実ではないからです それでも 文化的多様性の先行きは どんなに楽観的に考えたとしても 生物多様性で言う最悪のシナリオが 全く及ばないほど暗いものです  
 And the great indicator of that, of course, is language loss.    	  言語の消失をみれば 明らかです  
 When each of you in this room were born,  there were 6,000 languages spoken on the planet.    	  ここにいる皆さんが生まれた時 地球では6,000の言語が話されていました  
 Now, a language is not just a body of vocabulary  or a set of grammatical rules.    	  言語は 単に単語の集まり または 文法の規則一式ではありません  
 A language is a flash of the human spirit.    	  言語は人間精神の発露であり  
 It's a vehicle through which the soul of each particular culture  comes into the material world.    	  それぞれの文化の魂を 物質の世界に送り出す— 手段でもあります  
 Every language is an old-growth forest of the mind,  a watershed, a thought, an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities.    	  どの言語も 人間の心にとって 太古の森のようなものであり 精神が持つ可能性にとっての 河や、思考や生態系のようなものです  
 And of those 6,000 languages, as we sit here today in Monterey,  fully half are no longer being whispered into the ears of children.    	  そんな6,000の言語のうち半分が 私たちがこうしてここで座っている間にも もはや子供たちの耳に 届かなくなってしまっています  
 They're no longer being taught to babies,  which means, effectively, unless something changes,  they're already dead.    	  その言語を学ぶ赤ん坊はもはやおらず 何かが変わらない限り その言語は事実上 すでに死んでいます  
 What could be more lonely than to be enveloped in silence, to be the last of your people to speak your language,  to have no way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors  or anticipate the promise of the children?    	  その言葉をしゃべる最後の人間となって 沈黙に包まれ 先祖の知恵を未来に伝える手段もなく 子供に将来を委ねられないほど 寂しいことはありいません  
 And yet, that dreadful fate is indeed the plight of somebody  somewhere on Earth roughly every two weeks,  because every two weeks, some elder dies  and carries with him into the grave the last syllables  of an ancient tongue.    	  それでも この恐ろしい運命が どこかの誰かに降りかかっています ほぼ２週間に一度 地球上のどこかで 長老が亡くなり いにしえの言葉の最後の一言とともに 一緒に葬られているからです  
 And I know there's some of you who say, "Well, wouldn't it be better,  wouldn't the world be a better place  if we all just spoke one language?" And I say, "Great,  let's make that language Yoruba. Let's make it Cantonese.    	  「皆が1つの言語を話す世界の方が 良いのでは？」と 言う人もいるでしょう それなら ヨルバ語に統一しましょう あるいは広東語に  
 Let's make it Kogi."    	  コギ語でもいい  
 And you'll suddenly discover what it would be like  to be unable to speak your own language.    	  そう言われて初めて 自分の言語が消えることが どういうことか気付くはずです  
 And so, what I'd like to do with you today  is sort of take you on a journey through the ethnosphere,  a brief journey through the ethnosphere,  to try to begin to give you a sense of what in fact is being lost.    	  私は 今日皆さんを 民族文化圏を巡る旅に ご案内します その旅を通して 実際に何が失われているかを 感じて欲しいのです  
 Now, there are many of us who sort of forget  that when I say "different ways of being,"  I really do mean different ways of being.    	  我々の多くは 「人間の異なるあり方」と言う時 本当の意味で 「異なる」ということを 忘れがちです  
 Take, for example, this child of a Barasana in the Northwest Amazon,  the people of the anaconda  who believe that mythologically they came up the milk river  from the east in the belly of sacred snakes.    	  例えば この子はアマゾン北西部 バラサナ族の子ですが アナコンダの一族で 自分たちは 神聖な蛇の腹の中に守られ 東方から ミルク川を上がってきたという 神話を信じています  
 Now, this is a people who cognitively  do not distinguish the color blue from the color green  because the canopy of the heavens  is equated to the canopy of the forest  upon which the people depend.    	  この一族の色の認識には 青と緑の区別がありません 彼らにとって 生活を頼っている— 森の樹冠と 空の天蓋は同じものだからです  
 They have a curious language and marriage rule  which is called "linguistic exogamy:"  you must marry someone who speaks a different language.    	  彼らには一風変わった 言語と結婚の掟があり 言語的な族外婚 すなわち 自分と異なる言語を話す相手と 結婚しなければなりません  
 And this is all rooted in the mythological past,  yet the curious thing is in these long houses,  where there are six or seven languages spoken because of intermarriage,  you never hear anyone practicing a language.    	  昔からの伝説を根源とする風習ですが 面白いのは 彼らが住む長屋では この結婚制度により ６〜７言語が話されていますが 誰も言語を練習する訳ではないことです  
 They simply listen and then begin to speak.    	  彼らはただ単に聞いて しゃべりだすのです  
 Or, one of the most fascinating tribes I ever lived with,  the Waorani of northeastern Ecuador,  an astonishing people first contacted peacefully in 1958.    	  別の例は 私が共に暮らした 最も興味深い部族の１つ エクアドル北東部のワオラニ族です 1958年に初めて平和的に接触できた 人々です  
 In 1957, five missionaries attempted contact  and made a critical mistake.    	  1957年に5人の伝道者が接触を試みて 重大な過ちを犯しました  
 They dropped from the air  8 x 10 glossy photographs of themselves  in what we would say to be friendly gestures,  forgetting that these people of the rainforest  had never seen anything two-dimensional in their lives.    	  空から 大判の 自分たちの映った写真を撒いたのです 友好の印のつもりでしたが でも 森の人々がそれまで一度も ２次元のものは見たことがないことを 忘れていたのです  
 They picked up these photographs from the forest floor,  tried to look behind the face to find the form or the figure,  found nothing, and concluded that these were calling cards  from the devil, so they speared the five missionaries to death.    	  人々は地面から写真を拾い 写真の裏側にいる 人物を探しましたが 何も見つからなかったので 悪魔が来た証拠だと考え ５人の伝道者たちを槍で突き殺しました  
 But the Waorani didn't just spear outsiders.    	  でもワオラニ族は部外者を刺すだけでなく  
 They speared each other.    	  お互いも刺し殺します  
 54 percent of their mortality was due to them spearing each other.    	  彼らの死因の54%は 刺し合いでした  
 We traced genealogies back eight generations,  and we found two instances of natural death  and when we pressured the people a little bit about it,  they admitted that one of the fellows had gotten so old  that he died getting old, so we speared him anyway.   But at the same time they had a perspicacious knowledge  of the forest that was astonishing.    	  家系を８世代さかのぼり調査しましたが 自然死はたった２例でした そのことについて少し問い詰めたところ 仲間の１人がとても年を取ったため 老齢で死んだが槍で突いておいたと 白状しました しかし同時に彼らは驚くほど 洞察力に富んだ森林の 知識を持っていました  
 Their hunters could smell animal urine at 40 paces  and tell you what species left it behind.    	  狩人は40歩離れた場所から 動物の尿の臭いを嗅ぎ分け どの種が残したかが分かります  
 In the early '80s, I had a really astonishing assignment  when I was asked by my professor at Harvard  if I was interested in going down to Haiti,  infiltrating the secret societies  which were the foundation of Duvalier's strength  and Tonton Macoutes,  and securing the poison used to make zombies.    	  80年代初め ハーバード大学の私の教授から びっくりするような 研究課題を提示されました ハイチに行って独裁者ドュバリエの 権力を支え秘密警察の基盤となった― 秘密結社に潜入すること そしてゾンビを作るのに使われる 毒を入手する仕事に興味はないか というのです  
 In order to make sense out of sensation, of course,  I had to understand something about this remarkable faith  of Vodoun. And Voodoo is not a black magic cult.    	  もちろん このセンセーショナルな対象を 理解するため ブードゥーの驚くべき信仰を 理解する必要がありました ブードゥー教は 黒魔術のカルト宗教ではありません  
 On the contrary, it's a complex metaphysical worldview. It's interesting.    	  それどころか 複雑な 哲学的世界観を持つ面白い宗教です  
 If I asked you to name the great religions of the world, what would you say?    	  世界の主な宗教を聞かれたら 何をあげますか？  
 Christianity, Islam, Buddhism, Judaism, whatever.    	  キリスト教、イスラム教、 仏教、ユダヤ教…  
 There's always one continent left out,  the assumption being that sub-Saharan Africa  had no religious beliefs. Well, of course, they did  and Voodoo is simply the distillation  of these very profound religious ideas  that came over during the tragic Diaspora of the slavery era.    	  常に言及されない大陸が1つあります サハラ砂漠以南のアフリカには 宗教が ないかのように もちろん 間違いです そしてブードゥー教は まさに奴隷の時代の 悲劇的な離散を通して伝わった アフリカの大変奥深い宗教的思考の エッセンスです  
 But, what makes Voodoo so interesting  is that it's this living relationship  between the living and the dead.    	  ブードゥー教の興味深いところは 生者と死者とをつなぐ 生きた関係です  
 So, the living give birth to the spirits.    	  生者は魂を生み出し  
 The spirits can be invoked from beneath the Great Water,  responding to the rhythm of the dance  to momentarily displace the soul of the living,  so that for that brief shining moment, the acolyte becomes the god.    	  魂は 大いなる海の下から呼び覚まされ ダンスのリズムに呼応して 一時的に生者の魂が身体を離脱し そのほんの一瞬だけの間 信者に神が降りてくるのです  
 That's why the Voodooists like to say  that "You white people go to church and speak about God.    	  そのためブードゥー教の信者は 「白人は教会に行き 神について語るが  
 We dance in the temple and become God."    	  私たちは寺院で踊って 神になる」と言います  
 And because you are possessed, you are taken by the spirit --  how can you be harmed?    	  「霊に取り憑かれ 乗り移られているのだから 傷つくはずがない」と  
 So you see these astonishing demonstrations:  Voodoo acolytes in a state of trance  handling burning embers with impunity,  a rather astonishing demonstration of the ability of the mind  to affect the body that bears it  when catalyzed in the state of extreme excitation.    	  事実 先ほどのような 驚くべき光景が見られます トランス状態の信者は 残り火に触れても やけどしません これは 極限の興奮状態となったとき 心が 器である体に 影響を及ぼす力の 驚くべき表れであると言えます  
 Now, of all the peoples that I've ever been with,  the most extraordinary are the Kogi  of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta in northern Colombia.    	  さて これまで私が 共に過ごした中で 最も並外れて凄かったのが コロンビア北部の シェラネバダ山地のコギ族でした  
 which once carpeted the Caribbean coastal plain of Colombia,  in the wake of the conquest,  these people retreated into an isolated volcanic massif  that soars above the Caribbean coastal plain.    	  コロンビアのカリブ海沿岸の平野を 制圧していた古代タイロナ文明の 子孫たちは 侵略を受け カリブ海沿岸の平野に高くそびえる 隔離された火山群に逃げ込みました  
 In a bloodstained continent,  these people alone were never conquered by the Spanish.    	  血にまみれた大陸で 唯一スペイン人に 征服されなかった一族です  
 To this day, they remain ruled by a ritual priesthood  but the training for the priesthood is rather extraordinary.    	  現在も彼らは儀式を司る神官によって 治められていますが 神官になるためには 並外れた修行が必要です  
 The young acolytes are taken away from their families  at the age of three and four,  sequestered in a shadowy world of darkness  in stone huts at the base of glaciers for 18 years:  two nine-year periods  deliberately chosen to mimic the nine months of gestation  they spend in their natural mother's womb;  now they are metaphorically in the womb of the great mother.    	  修行は幼い頃から始まります ３～４才の時に 家族の元から連れ去られ 氷河のふもとにある石室の中 暗闇の世界に 18年間隔離されます ９年間を２度繰り返すのは 母胎の中で過ごした ９ヶ月間の 妊娠期間の象徴です 偉大な母なる大地の 母胎の中に置かれるわけです  
 And for this entire time,  they are inculturated into the values of their society,  values that maintain the proposition that their prayers  and their prayers alone maintain the cosmic --  or we might say the ecological -- balance.    	  その間ずっと 彼らの社会の価値文化を教え込まれます 彼らの祈りだけが 宇宙を維持し 生態学的なバランスを 維持するのだ という 命題を維持する価値を受容します  
 And at the end of this amazing initiation,  one day they're suddenly taken out  and for the first time in their lives, at the age of 18,  they see a sunrise. And in that crystal moment of awareness  of first light as the Sun begins to bathe the slopes  suddenly everything they have learned in the abstract  is affirmed in stunning glory. And the priest steps back  and says, "You see? It's really as I've told you.    	  この驚くべき儀式の終わりに ある日突然彼らは連れ出され 18才にして初めて 日の出を見るのです 周囲の丘が太陽の光を浴びて 感嘆するほど美しい情景が広がる その最初の光を見た 澄み切った ひらめきの瞬間 突然 抽象的に学んでいたことを 素晴らしい栄光として理解するのです そこで神官が言います 「ごらん 言ったとおりだろう  
 It is that beautiful. It is yours to protect."    	  こんなにも美しい これをお前が守るんだ」  
 They call themselves the "elder brothers"  are the ones responsible for destroying the world.    	  彼らは 自分たちを「兄」と名乗り 世界を破壊している責任は 「弟」である我々にある と言います  
 Now, this level of intuition becomes very important.    	  このような直観は とても重要です  
 Whenever we think of indigenous people and landscape,  we either invoke Rousseau and the old canard of the "noble savage,"  which is an idea racist in its simplicity,  or alternatively, we invoke Thoreau  and say these people are closer to the Earth than we are.    	  先住民の人々と 自然の風景について考える時 我々は ルソーが唱えた 高貴な野蛮人という 単純で人種差別的な 虚構を思い浮かべるか あるいは ソローを想起して 地球により近い人々 と呼ぶかもしれません  
 Well, indigenous people are neither sentimental  nor weakened by nostalgia.    	  先住民の人々は感傷的でもなければ 郷愁によって衰弱してもいません  
 There's not a lot of room for either  in the malarial swamps of the Asmat  or in the chilling winds of Tibet, but they have, nevertheless,  through time and ritual, forged a traditional mystique of the Earth  that is based not on the idea of being self-consciously close to it,  but on a far subtler intuition:  the idea that the Earth itself can only exist  because it is breathed into being by human consciousness.    	  マラリアのはびこるアスマットの沼地にも チベットの凍えるような風にも そんな余地はありません しかしそれでもなお 彼らは 歴史と儀式を通し 地球の伝統的な神秘を 案出してきました それは意識的に地球に近づこうと 考えるのではなく もっと敏感な直感に基づき 地球が存在できるのは 人間の意識によって 息を吹き込まれているからだ と考えるのです  
 Now, what does that mean?    	  これはどういうことでしょうか？  
 It means that a young kid from the Andes  who's raised to believe that that mountain is an Apu spirit  that will direct his or her destiny  will be a profoundly different human being  and have a different relationship to that resource  or that place than a young kid from Montana  raised to believe that a mountain is a pile of rock  ready to be mined.    	  たとえば アンデスの子供が 山はアプの精霊だと信じて育ち 山が彼の運命を導くと考えるのと モンタナ州の子供が 山はただの岩の堆積で 鉱業化を待つのみ と思って育ったのとでは 深いところで 異なる人間となり 資源や場所と自分との関係性も 異なるでしょう  
 Whether it's the abode of a spirit or a pile of ore is irrelevant.    	  山が霊の住む場所なのか 鉱石の山なのかは 重要ではありません  
 What's interesting is the metaphor that defines the relationship  between the individual and the natural world.    	  興味深いのは 個人と自然界の関係を 定義する隠喩です  
 I was raised in the forests of British Columbia  to believe those forests existed to be cut.    	  私はブリティッシュコロンビア州の森林で 森林は伐採されるために 存在すると信じて育ち  
 than my friends amongst the Kwagiulth  who believe that those forests were the abode of Huxwhukw  and the Crooked Beak of Heaven  and the cannibal spirits that dwelled at the north end of the world,  spirits they would have to engage during their Hamatsa initiation.    	  クワキウトル族の友人とは 違う人間になりました 友人は こう信じていました 森は「天の曲がったくちばし」やハクウクー そして 世界の北の果てに住む 人食い鬼のすみかなのだと 鬼はハマツァの通過儀礼で 戦を交えなければならない精霊です  
 Now, if you begin to look at the idea  that these cultures could create different realities,  you could begin to understand  some of their extraordinary discoveries. Take this plant here.    	  文化ごとに 創り出される現実が 違うという点に目を向ければ それぞれの文化が 驚くべき発見をしてきたことが理解できます 例えば この植物です  
 It's a photograph I took in the Northwest Amazon just last April.    	  去年の４月にアマゾン北西部で撮った写真です  
 This is ayahuasca, which many of you have heard about,  the most powerful psychoactive preparation  of the shaman's repertoire.    	  これは 名前をご存じかもしれません シャーマンが使う 最強の向精神物質 アヤワスカです  
 What makes ayahuasca fascinating  is not the sheer pharmacological potential of this preparation,  but the elaboration of it. It's made really of two different sources:  on the one hand, this woody liana  which has in it a series of beta-carbolines,  harmine, harmaline, mildly hallucinogenic --  to take the vine alone  is rather to have sort of blue hazy smoke  drift across your consciousness --  but it's mixed with the leaves of a shrub in the coffee family    	  アヤワスカが興味深いのは この製剤の単なる薬理的可能性ではなく 調合の入念さです 2つの異なる原料で作られています ひとつは リアナの木のツル β-カルボリン類、ハルミン、ハルマリンなど 軽い幻覚を起こす成分が含まれています ただツルだけを摂取すると 青くかすんだ 煙のようなものが意識に流れます でもこれをプシコトリア・ウィリディスという コーヒー科の木の葉と混ぜ合わせます  
 This plant had in it some very powerful tryptamines,  very close to brain serotonin, dimethyltryptamine,  5-methoxydimethyltryptamine. If you've ever seen the Yanomami  blowing that snuff up their noses,  that substance they make from a different set of species  also contains methoxydimethyltryptamine. To have that powder blown up your nose  is rather like being shot out of a rifle barrel  lined with baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity.     	  この植物には 脳内セロトニン ジメチルトリプタミン 5-メトキシジメチルトリプタミン とよく似た 最強のトリプタミン類が含まれています ヤノマミ族が それを鼻から 吸っているのを見たことがあるでしょうか あの材料は異なる種を 組み合わせて作りますが やはり メトキシジメチルトリプタミンが 含まれています あの粉を鼻から吸い込むことは バロック絵画で内張された ライフルの銃身から撃ち出されて  
 It doesn't create the distortion of reality;  it creates the dissolution of reality.    	  電流の海に落ちるような感覚です  現実がねじれて見えるのではなく 現実世界が崩壊します  
 In fact, I used to argue with my professor, Richard Evan Shultes --  who is a man who sparked the psychedelic era  with his discovery of the magic mushrooms  in Mexico in the 1930s --  I used to argue that you couldn't classify these tryptamines  as hallucinogenic because by the time you're under the effects  there's no one home anymore to experience a hallucination.   But the thing about tryptamines is they cannot be taken orally    	  リチャード・E・シュルテス教授と よく議論しました 彼は1930年代にメキシコで マジックマッシュルームを発見し サイケデリック時代の 火付け役となった人です トリプタミン類は 幻覚誘発剤分類すべきでないと 私は主張しました なぜなら効果が現れる頃には 幻覚を体験できる意識自体が とっくにぶっとんでしまっているからです ただトリプタミン類は モノアミン酸化酵素という人間の腸に  
 because they're denatured by an enzyme  found naturally in the human gut called monoamine oxidase.    	  常在する酵素によって 分解されるため 経口摂取しても効きません  
 They can only be taken orally if taken in conjunction  with some other chemical that denatures the MAO.    	  トリプタミン類は モノアミン酸化酵素の阻害剤と 一緒に内服しなくてはいけません  
 Now, the fascinating things  are that the beta-carbolines found within that liana  are MAO inhibitors of the precise sort necessary  to potentiate the tryptamine. So you ask yourself a question.    	  とても面白いのは 先ほどのツル植物に見つかった β-カルボリン類は トリプタミン類の薬効を高めるのに必要な モノアミン酵化酵素の阻害剤なのです 考えてみて下さい  
 How, in a flora of 80,000 species of vascular plants,  do these people find these two morphologically unrelated plants  that when combined in this way,  of the whole being greater than the sum of the parts?    	  どうやって8万種もの維管束植物から 彼らは形態的に無関連の２つの植物を探し このように組み合わせると 単独の効果を足した以上の効果がある という 生化学的事実を見出したのか？  
 Well, we use that great euphemism, "trial and error,"  which is exposed to be meaningless.    	  私たちは ほぼ無意味に近い 大変遠回りな 試行錯誤を行って実証します  
 But you ask the Indians, and they say, "The plants talk to us."    	  でもインディアンに聞くと 「植物が語りかけてくる」と言います  
 Well, what does that mean?    	  どういうことでしょう？  
 This tribe, the Cofan, has 17 varieties of ayahuasca,  all of which they distinguish a great distance in the forest,  all of which are referable to our eye as one species.    	  このコファンの部族は17種類の アヤワスカを持っていて 彼らは森の中で 遠くから それを見分けますが 私たちの目からは それらは全て１つの種に属します  
 And then you ask them how they establish their taxonomy  and they say, "I thought you knew something about plants.    	  どうやって分類法を確立したのか と聞くと 彼らは「君は植物に詳しい と思っていたのに何も知らないの？」  
 I mean, don't you know anything?" And I said, "No."    	  といいます私は「知らないんだ」と  
 Well, it turns out you take each of the 17 varieties  in the night of a full moon, and it sings to you in a different key.    	  彼らは17種類のそれぞれを満月の夜に採ると それぞれ別の音で歌いかけてくるから分かると言います  
 Now, that's not going to get you a Ph.D. at Harvard,  but it's a lot more interesting than counting stamens.   Now --   --  sympathetic with the plight of indigenous people  view them as quaint and colorful  but somehow reduced to the margins of history  as the real world, meaning our world, moves on.    	  それではハーバード大の 博士号は取れませんが 雄しべを数える研究よりは 遥かに興味深いです　 さて （拍手） 問題は 先住民の状況に 共感する人々ですら 彼らはユニークで 興味深いけれども 歴史の隅に 追いやられた人々に過ぎず その間に現実世界 すなわち 我々の世界は 前進しているのだと 思うことです  
 Well, the truth is the 20th century, 300 years from now,  is not going to be remembered for its wars  or its technological innovations,  and either actively endorsed or passively accepted  the massive destruction of both biological and cultural diversity  on the planet. Now, the problem isn't change.    	  真実は 今から300年後に 20世紀が 記憶されるのは 戦争 または 技術革命によってではなく 地球上の 生物と文化の多様性 その両方の大破壊に積極的に荷担した ないしは 黙って許したことによってだろうと いうことです  
 All cultures through all time  have constantly been engaged in a dance  with new possibilities of life.    	  問題は変化ではありません 全ての文化が 全ての時代において 常に新しい生活の可能性と共に  
 And the problem is not technology itself.    	  戯れてきました 問題は 技術そのものではありません  
 The Sioux Indians did not stop being Sioux  when they gave up the bow and arrow  any more than an American stopped being an American  when he gave up the horse and buggy.    	  スー族のインディアンは 弓矢を手放しても スー族です それは アメリカ人が馬車に乗らなくなっても アメリカ人であり続けたのと同じです  
 It's not change or technology  that threatens the integrity of the ethnosphere. It is power,  the crude face of domination.    	  民俗文化圏の原理を脅かすのは 変化でも技術でもありませんそれは権力です 支配という生々しい事実です  
 Wherever you look around the world,  you discover that these are not cultures destined to fade away;  these are dynamic living peoples  being driven out of existence by identifiable forces  that are beyond their capacity to adapt to:  whether it's the egregious deforestation  in the homeland of the Penan --  a nomadic people from Southeast Asia, from Sarawak --  a people who lived free in the forest until a generation ago,    	  皆さんが 世界を見渡せば これらが 姿を消すべく運命づけられた 文化などではないと気付きます 力強く生きる人々が 彼らの 適応力を超えた 特定の権力によって 存在できなくされています 東南アジアのサラワク州の 非定住民 ペナン族の母国で 実にひどい森林伐採がありました 一世代前まで 彼らは森林で 自由に暮らしていたのに  
 and now have all been reduced to servitude and prostitution  on the banks of the rivers,  where you can see the river itself is soiled with the silt  that seems to be carrying half of Borneo away  to the South China Sea,  where the Japanese freighters hang light in the horizon  ready to fill their holds with raw logs ripped from the forest --  or, in the case of the Yanomami,    	  いまでは川岸で 奴隷と売春をするにいたっています 川岸では 川自体が沈泥であふれ ボルネオの半分が 南シナ海に運び出されたように見えます その海では 日本の貨物船が水平線に光りを灯し 森から切り出された丸太を積み込もうと 手ぐすねを引いています またはヤノマミ族の場合  
 it's the disease entities that have come in,  in the wake of the discovery of gold.    	  金の発見をきっかけに 種々の問題が起こりました  
 Or if we go into the mountains of Tibet,  where I'm doing a lot of research recently,  you'll see it's a crude face of political domination.    	  または 私が最近多く調査をしている チベットの山々に行くと 露骨な占領支配を目にします  
 You know, genocide, the physical extinction of a people  is universally condemned, but ethnocide,  the destruction of people's way of life, is not only not condemned,  it's universally, in many quarters, celebrated  as part of a development strategy.    	  民族を集団虐殺し 物理的に死滅させることは 一般にも非難されていますが 文化の破壊は非難されないばかりか 世界各地で開発戦略の一部として 称賛されています  
 And you cannot understand the pain of Tibet  until you move through it at the ground level.    	  チベットの苦悩は 現地を見て 初めて分かります  
 I once travelled 6,000 miles from Chengdu in Western China  overland through southeastern Tibet to Lhasa  with a young colleague, and it was only when I got to Lhasa  that I understood the face behind the statistics  you hear about:  6,000 sacred monuments torn apart to dust and ashes,  1.2 million people killed by the cadres  during the Cultural Revolution.    	  中国西部の成都から陸路で チベット南東を通って若い同僚と共に 4,000キロを旅して ラサへ着いた時にやっと 統計でみた数字が示していた 悲惨な実態が 分かったのです 6,000の僧院が粉々に破壊され 120万人もの人が 文化革命の最中に 紅衛兵に殺されました  
 This young man's father had been ascribed to the Panchen Lama.    	  この若者の父親は パンチェン・ラマとつながりがあると見なされ  
 That meant he was instantly killed  at the time of the Chinese invasion.    	  中国の侵略時に すぐに 殺されました  
 His uncle fled with His Holiness in the Diaspora  that took the people to Nepal.    	  彼の叔父はダライラマと共に逃げ ネパールに移住しました  
 His mother was incarcerated for the crime of being wealthy.    	  彼の母親は 裕福であるという罪で  
 He was smuggled into the jail at the age of two  to hide beneath her skirt tails  because she couldn't bear to be without him.    	  投獄されました 母親は ２歳の彼と離れるにしのびなく 息子をスカートの下に隠して 牢獄にこっそりつれていきました  
 The sister who had done that brave deed  was put into an education camp.    	  勇敢に抵抗した妹は 教育キャンプに 入れられました  
 One day she inadvertently stepped on an armband  of Mao, and for that transgression,  she was given seven years of hard labor.    	  ある日 妹はうっかり毛沢東の 腕章を踏んでしまい その罪で ７年間の重労働が課せられました  
 The pain of Tibet can be impossible to bear,  but the redemptive spirit of the people is something to behold.    	  チベットの苦痛に耐えるのは不可能ですが チベットの人々の あがないの精神 見守るべきものです  
 And in the end, then, it really comes down to a choice:  do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotony  or do we want to embrace a polychromatic world of diversity?    	  結局 何を選ぶか なのです 無味乾燥な単色の世界に住みたいか？ または多様性に富んだ 多色の世界を受け入れたいか？  
 Margaret Mead, the great anthropologist, said, before she died,  that her greatest fear was that as we drifted towards  this blandly amorphous generic world view  not only would we see the entire range of the human imagination  reduced to a more narrow modality of thought,  but that we would wake from a dream one day  having forgotten there were even other possibilities.    	  偉大なる人類学者のマーガレット・ミードが 亡くなる前に 「最も恐れるのは私たちがあいまいで個性のない 世界観へと押し流され 人間の想像力の全域が 狭く パターン化した思考に 縮小されることだけでなく ある日夢から覚め 違った可能性が あったことすら すっかり忘れていることだ」と言いました  
 And it's humbling to remember that our species has, perhaps,  been around for [150,000] years.    	  私たち人類の歴史は たかだか15万年だと思えば 謙虚になります  
 The Neolithic Revolution -- which gave us agriculture,  at which time we succumbed to the cult of the seed;  the poetry of the shaman was displaced  by the prose of the priesthood;  we created hierarchy specialization surplus --  is only 10,000 years ago.    	  新石器時代 我々が農業を知り 種を崇拝するようになり シャーマンの詩が 司祭の賛歌に 置き換えられ 余剰生産により階級制度が生まれたのは つい１万年前のことです  
 The modern industrial world as we know it  is barely 300 years old.    	  近代産業社会は生まれてから わずか300年です  
 Now, that shallow history doesn't suggest to me  that we have all the answers for all of the challenges  that will confront us in the ensuing millennia.    	  その浅い歴史が 示唆するように 私たちは 次の千年間に直面する すべての挑戦への すべての答えを持っていません  
 When these myriad cultures of the world  are asked the meaning of being human,  they respond with 10,000 different voices.    	  世界の無数の文化に 人間でいる意味を問えば １万の異なる声で 答えが戻ってくるでしょう  
 And it's within that song that we will all rediscover the possibility  of being what we are: a fully conscious species,  fully aware of ensuring that all peoples and all gardens  find a way to flourish. And there are great moments of optimism.    	  そして そのハーモニーの中から 私たちは 私たちでいられる 可能性を 再発見するのです 全ての人 全ての楽園が 繁栄するための方法を 確実に見つけることの大切さを知っている 意識のひらけた種となる可能性を思うと とても楽観的になれます  
 This is a photograph I took at the northern tip of Baffin Island  when I went narwhal hunting with some Inuit people,  and this man, Olayuk, told me a marvelous story of his grandfather.    	  この写真はバフィン島の最北端で イヌイット族の人々と イッカク狩りに行った時に撮ったもので この男性 オラヤ が 自分の祖父の武勇伝を話してくれました  
 The Canadian government has not always been kind  to the Inuit people, and during the 1950s,  to establish our sovereignty, we forced them into settlements.    	  カナダ政府は イヌイット族に対し 常に好意的であったわけではなく 1950年代に 国の主権を確立するために 強制的に入植地に移住させました  
 This old man's grandfather refused to go.    	  オラヤの年老いた祖父は 行くのを拒みました  
 The family, fearful for his life, took away all of his weapons,  all of his tools.    	  家族は彼の命を心配し 彼の持っていた武器や道具を 取り上げました  
 Now, you must understand that the Inuit did not fear the cold;  they took advantage of it.    	  イヌイット族は 寒さをまったく恐れず 活用して生きてきました  
 The runners of their sleds were originally made of fish  wrapped in caribou hide.    	  イヌイットのそりの 滑走部は もともと魚を カリブーの皮で覆ったものでした  
 So, this man's grandfather was not intimidated by the Arctic night  or the blizzard that was blowing.    	  なのでオラヤの祖父は 北極の夜にも 夜の猛吹雪にも 脅えることはありませんでした  
 He simply slipped outside, pulled down his sealskin trousers  and defecated into his hand. And as the feces began to freeze,  he shaped it into the form of a blade.    	  彼は当たり前のように外へ出て アザラシの毛皮のズボンを下ろし 自分の手に排便しました 排泄物が凍ると それを刃物の形にしました  
 He put a spray of saliva on the edge of the shit knife  and as it finally froze solid, he butchered a dog with it.    	  大便の刃に唾液を吹きかけ やっと固体に固まると それで犬を切り裂きました  
 He skinned the dog and improvised a harness,  took the ribcage of the dog and improvised a sled,  harnessed up an adjacent dog,  and disappeared over the ice floes, shit knife in belt.    	  犬の皮をはいで その場で引き具を作り 同じ犬の胸郭でそりを作り 近くの犬に 引き具を付け ベルトには大便の刃物を巻いて 浮氷塊の向こうへ姿を消しました  
 Talk about getting by with nothing.   And this, in many ways --   --  is a symbol of the resilience of the Inuit people  and of all indigenous people around the world.    	  裸一貫から身を起こす とは まさにこういうことを言うんですね これが色んな意味で （拍手） イヌイット族の人々 そして世界中の全ての 先住民の人々の生命力の象徴です  
 The Canadian government in April of 1999  gave back to total control of the Inuit  an area of land larger than California and Texas put together.    	  カナダ政府は1999年4月 イヌイット族に カリフォルニア州とテキサス州の 総面積を上回る大きさの土地を返しました  
 It's our new homeland. It's called Nunavut.    	  イヌイットにとっての新しい故郷 ヌナブトです  
 It's an independent territory. They control all mineral resources.    	  独立した準州です 住民が全ての鉱物資源を仕切っています  
 An amazing example of how a nation-state  can seek restitution with its people.    	  国家が国民への賠償を忘れなかった— 素晴らしい例です  
 And finally, in the end, I think it's pretty obvious  at least to all of all us who've traveled  in these remote reaches of the planet,  to realize that they're not remote at all.    	  そして最後に 少なくとも これら遠方の 現代社会から 隔離された土地まで 旅したことのある人には明らかですが そこは「遠方」ではありません  
 They're homelands of somebody.    	  誰かにとっては故郷なのです  
 They represent branches of the human imagination  that go back to the dawn of time. And for all of us,  the dreams of these children, like the dreams of our own children,  become part of the naked geography of hope.    	  太古の時代にさかのぼる人間の想像力の 枝先を象徴しています 私たち全員にとって これらの子供の夢は私たちの子供の夢のように 子供達の夢が希望の地形を形作るのです  
 So, what we're trying to do at the National Geographic, finally,  is, we believe that politicians will never accomplish anything.    	  最後に ナショナルジオグラフィック について紹介します 私たちは 政治家たちには 何も達成できないと思っており  
 We think that polemics --   --  we think that polemics are not persuasive,  but we think that storytelling can change the world,  and so we are probably the best storytelling institution  in the world. We get 35 million hits on our website every month.    	  政治論争は — （拍手） 説得力がない — 世界を変えるのは物語だと 考えており 当誌こそ 物語を伝える 世界最高の機関だと考えています ウェブサイトのヒット件数は 毎月3,500万にものぼります  
 156 nations carry our television channel.    	  156カ国で私たちのテレビチャンネルが 放映されています  
 Our magazines are read by millions.    	  本誌には何百万もの読者がいます  
 And what we're doing is a series of journeys  to the ethnosphere where we're going to take our audience  to places of such cultural wonder  that they cannot help but come away dazzled  embrace gradually, one by one,  that this world deserves to exist in a diverse way,  that we can find a way to live in a truly multicultural, pluralistic world  where all of the wisdom of all peoples  can contribute to our collective well-being.    	  掲載されているのは 文化圏への旅 — 読者を案内する先は 驚異の文化遺産です そこで目にするものに 驚嘆せざるをえないために 人類学の最も重要な啓示を 願わくば 徐々に 一人また一人と 受け入れてほしいと思います 世界は多様な形で 存在する価値があるということと そして 真の多文化・多元的世界において 集合的な幸福のために 全人類の知恵を役立て 共存する手段を 我々は見つけ出すことができるのだ という啓示です  
 Thank you very much.    	  ありがとうございました  
 I'm going to talk to you about some stuff that's in this book of mine  that I hope will resonate with other things you've already heard,  and I'll try to make some connections myself, in case you missed them.    	  私自身の著書にあることについてお話します 既にどこかで聞いた事があるような 他のことと共鳴するでしょう しかしそうでない方のために 私が関連付けながら話していきます  
 But I want to start with what I call the "official dogma."    	  まずは私が「公式教義」と呼ぶもの から始めたいと思います  
 The official dogma of what?    	  何の公式教義なのか？  
 The official dogma of all Western industrial societies.    	  西欧の産業社会全ての公式教義です  
 And the official dogma runs like this:  if we are interested in maximizing the welfare of our citizens,  the way to do that is to maximize individual freedom.    	  その公式教義はこんな調子のものです もし我々が自らの市民の繁栄を 最大限にすることに興味があるのなら その方法は 個人の自由を最大限にすることである  
 The reason for this is both that freedom is in and of itself good,  valuable, worthwhile, essential to being human.    	  その理由はひとつは 自由そのものが良いということ 貴重で、価値があり、 人であることの根幹をなしているから  
 And because if people have freedom,  then each of us can act on our own  to do the things that will maximize our welfare,  and no one has to decide on our behalf.    	  更に、もし人に自由が与えられれば 一人一人が個人に基づいて行動できる 我々自身の繁栄を最大限にするように行動し 他の誰も 我々のために決断をしないで済みます  
 The way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice.    	  自由を最大限にするためには 最大限の選択を与えることです  
 The more choice people have, the more freedom they have,  and the more freedom they have, the more welfare they have.    	  選択が多ければ その分自由度は増し 自由度が増せば その分繁栄する  
 This, I think, is so deeply embedded in the water supply  that it wouldn't occur to anyone to question it.    	  この考えが 私が思うに あまりにも深く浸透しているため 誰もこれに異議を唱えようとすら 思わないのです  
 And it's also deeply embedded in our lives.    	  またこれは我々の人生にも 深く埋め込まれています  
 I'll give you some examples of what modern progress has made possible for us.    	  近代の発展で可能になったものから いくつか例を出しましょう  
 This is my supermarket. Not such a big one.    	  これが私のスーパーです それほど大きくはない  
 I want to say just a word about salad dressing.    	  サラダ・ドレッシングについて一言  
 175 salad dressings in my supermarket,  if you don't count the 10 extra-virgin olive oils  and 12 balsamic vinegars you could buy  to make a very large number of your own salad dressings,  in the off-chance that none of the 175 the store has on offer suit you.    	  私のスーパーには 175種のドレッシングがあって それに加えて10種の エキストラ・バージン・オリーブ・オイルと 12種のバルサミコ酢があります もしここの 175の既製品のドレッシングの中には 気に入ったのがなかった時に 自分で作れるようにね  
 So this is what the supermarket is like.    	  まあ、このスーパーはこんな感じです  
 And then you go to the consumer electronics store to set up a stereo system --  speakers, CD player, tape player, tuner, amplifier --  and in this one single consumer electronics store,  there are that many stereo systems. We can construct six-and-a-half-million different stereo systems  out of the components that are on offer in one store.    	  で、次に電機店にステレオシステムを 作るために行って スピーカー、CDプレーヤー、テープデッキ、 チューナー、アンプなど それでこの電機店１店舗の中に 上のスーパーと同じ数くらいの ステレオシステムがある １店舗の中にある部品を 組み合わせていくだけで  
 You've got to admit that's a lot of choice.    	  650万種もの ステレオシステムが組み立てられるのです これは莫大な数の選択肢だと 認めざるを得ませんね  
 In other domains -- the world of communications.    	  他の分野では コミュニケーションの世界  
 There was a time, when I was a boy,  when you could get any kind of telephone service you wanted,  as long as it came from Ma Bell.    	  私が子供だった頃は マーベル社からでさえあれば どんな電話サービスでも 受ける事ができる時代がありました  
 You rented your phone. You didn't buy it.    	  電話は買うものではなく借りるものでした  
 One consequence of that, by the way, is that the phone never broke.    	  その結果 電話が壊れる事はない ということがありました  
 And those days are gone.    	  そんな日々も今は昔  
 We now have an almost unlimited variety of phones,  especially in the world of cell phones.    	  我々の前には 特に携帯電話の世界においては 無尽蔵の選択肢が用意されています  
 These are cell phones of the future.    	  これらは携帯電話の未来の形です  
 My favorite is the middle one --  the MP3 player, nose hair trimmer, and crème brûlée torch.   And if by some chance you haven't seen that in your store yet,  you can rest assured that one day soon, you will.    	  私のお気に入りは真ん中の MP３プレーヤー、鼻毛切り クレームブリュレバーナーが一体化してるもの もしお近くの店舗で まだ見かけていなかったとしても大丈夫 近日中にお目にかかれますよ  
 And what this does  is it leads people to walk into their stores asking this question.    	  これが何をもたらすかというと 人々が店に来る際 ある質問が既に問われています  
 And do you know what the answer to this question now is?    	  その質問の答えを今知りたいですか？  
 The answer is "no."    	  答えはNoです  
 It is not possible to buy a cell phone that doesn't do too much.    	  余計なことをしない携帯電話を 買おうとしてもそれは不可能なのです  
 So, in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying things,  the same explosion of choice is true.    	  さて 購買活動以上に重要な 人生の他の局面においても 同じような選択の爆発が起こっています  
 Health care. It is no longer the case in the United States  that you go to the doctor, and the doctor tells you what to do.    	  医療について 米国では既に 皆さんが医者のところに行くと 医者がどうすれば良いか教えてくれる という時代は終わりました  
 Instead, you go to the doctor,  and the doctor tells you, "Well, we could do A, or we could do B.    	  その代わりに 皆さんが医者に行くと 医者から Aをすることができるし Bをする事もできる と言われます  
 A has these benefits, and these risks.    	  Aにはこのような効果とリスクがあって  
 B has these benefits, and these risks. What do you want to do?"    	  Bにはこのような効果とリスクがある あなたはどうしたいですか？と聞かれます  
 And you say, "Doc, what should I do?"    	  そこで「先生 私はどうしたらいいでしょう？」 と聞くと  
 And the doc says, "A has these benefits and risks, and B has these benefits and risks.    	  医者はAにはこのような効果とリスクが Bにはこのような効果とリスクがあります  
 What do you want to do?"    	  あなたはどうしたいですか？  
 And you say, "If you were me, Doc, what would you do?"    	  そこで「先生が私だったらどうしますか？」 と聞いてみると  
 And the doc says, "But I'm not you."    	  すると医者は 「でも私はあなたではありません」と言う  
 And the result is -- we call it "patient autonomy,"  which makes it sound like a good thing,  but it really is a shifting of the burden and the responsibility  for decision-making from somebody who knows something --  namely, the doctor --  to somebody who knows nothing and is almost certainly sick  and thus not in the best shape to be making decisions --  namely, the patient.    	  そしてその結果 ―これを「患者の自己決定権」と呼び こう呼ぶと とてもいい事のように聞こえますが― でも本当は何が起こっているのかと言うと 決断権の重荷と責任を 何らかの知識のある者から ―この場合は医者から― 何も知らず 少なくともとても具合が悪いので 判断をくだすのに 必ずしも適さない者 すなわち患者に委ねているのです  
 There's enormous marketing of prescription drugs  to people like you and me,  which, if you think about it, makes no sense at all,  since we can't buy them.    	  処方箋薬の市場では われわれ消費者に対して 莫大なマーケティング活動が行われてますが よくよく考えてみると これは全く意味のない事で 我々に買う事はできないのです  
 Why do they market to us if we can't buy them?    	  我々が購入することができないものを なぜ売り込むのか？  
 The answer is that they expect us to call our doctors the next morning  and ask for our prescriptions to be changed.    	  その答えは我々が翌朝 かかりつけの医者に電話をして 処方箋を変えてもらいたいと 頼ませようとしているのです  
 Something as dramatic as our identity  has now become a matter of choice,  as this slide is meant to indicate.    	  私たちのアイデンティティーという ドラマチックなものでさえ 選択できるものとなったことを このスライドは示しています [性別は本人に選ばせようと思うの]  
 We don't inherit an identity; we get to invent it.    	  アイデンティティーを受け継がず  
 And we get to re-invent ourselves as often as we like.    	  発明する しかも好きなだけ 再発明するようになると  
 And that means that every day, when you wake up in the morning,  you have to decide what kind of person you want to be.    	  それが意味するところは毎朝目が覚めた時に 自分がどんな人になりたいのか 決断しなくてはならない  
 With respect to marriage and family,  there was a time when the default assumption that almost everyone had  is that you got married as soon as you could,  and then you started having kids as soon as you could.    	  結婚や家族に関しては 以前には みんなが持つ共通認識として できるだけ早く結婚をして できるだけ早く 子づくりをするということがありました  
 The only real choice was who,  not when, and not what you did after.    	  本当の選択は誰と結婚するかであって いつ結婚するかとか 結婚後どうするかではありませんでした  
 Nowadays, everything is very much up for grabs.    	  現在では 全てのものがどうにでもなってしまっています  
 I teach wonderfully intelligent students,  and I assign 20 percent less work than I used to.    	  私は素晴らしく知性にあふれた学生達を 教えていますが 以前と比べて与える課題を 20％くらい減らしています  
 And it's not because they're less smart,  and it's not because they're less diligent.    	  それは学生達の頭が 悪くなっているからではなく 熱心でなくなったからでもありません  
 It's because they are preoccupied, asking themselves,  "Should I get married or not? Should I get married now?    	  それは学生達が 他のことで頭がいっぱいだからです 「結婚をするべきか否か？ 今結婚をするべきか？  
 Should I get married later? Should I have kids first, or a career first?"    	  結婚を遅らせるべきか？ 子供が先か、キャリアが先か？」  
 All of these are consuming questions.    	  これらは圧倒的な質問です  
 And they're going to answer these questions,  whether or not it means not doing all the work I assign  and not getting a good grade in my courses.    	  そして学生達は 私の出した課題を全てやり遂げるかどうかや いい成績をとるかどうかに関わらず これらの質問の答を出していくのです  
 And indeed they should. These are important questions to answer.    	  そしてそうすべきなのです これらはとても重要な質問ですから  
 Work -- we are blessed, as Carl was pointing out,  with the technology that enables us  to work every minute of every day from any place on the planet --  except the Randolph Hotel.    	  カールが指摘したように 仕事に関して 我々は恵まれています 世界中のどこにいても 一日のどの時間でも 仕事をすることを可能にする テクノロジーがあるからです ランドルフ・ホテルを除いてね  
     There is one corner, by the way,  that I'm not going to tell anybody about, where the WiFi actually works.    	   それはそうと １か所だけ 無線が通じる秘密のところがあるんですよ 私が使いたいから誰にも言いません  
 I'm not telling you about it because I want to use it. So what this means,  this incredible freedom of choice we have with respect to work,  is that we have to make a decision, again and again and again,  about whether we should or shouldn't be working.    	  これが意味するところは 仕事に関して我々に与えられている 素晴らしい選択の自由ということですが 私達は常に 何度も何度も何度も仕事をすべきか否かの 決断を下さなくてはならない  
 We can go to watch our kid play soccer,  and we have our cell phone on one hip,  and our Blackberry on our other hip,  and our laptop, presumably, on our laps.    	  子供のサッカーの試合を見に行って 尻ポケットに携帯電話を突っ込んで 反対のポケットにはモバイル端末 膝の上にノートパソコンを開いている  
 And even if they're all shut off,  every minute that we're watching our kid mutilate a soccer game,  we are also asking ourselves,  "Should I answer this cell phone call?    	  それらが全て電源が落とされていたとしても 子供がサッカーの試合を むちゃくちゃにしているのを観ながら 常に自問自答をしているのです 「この電話にでるべきだろうか？  
 Should I respond to this email? Should I draft this letter?"    	  このメールの返事は？ レポートのドラフトは？」  
 And even if the answer to the question is "no,"  it's certainly going to make the experience of your kid's soccer game  very different than it would've been.    	  そしてそれらの答えが たとえ全てNoであったとしても 子供のサッカーの試合を見ると言う経験は 自問自答がなかった時とは とても違ったものになっています  
 So everywhere we look,  big things and small things, material things and lifestyle things,  life is a matter of choice.    	  周りを見回してみると 大きなことも小さなことも 物質的なことも生活に関わることも 人生の全てが選択に集約されています  
 And the world we used to live in looked like this.    	  我々が以前生きていた世界は このようなものでした  
 [Well, actually, they are written in stone.]  That is to say, there were some choices,  but not everything was a matter of choice.    	  [全て定めのとおり] というのは いくつかの選択はありましたが 全ての物事が選択ということではなかった  
 And the world we now live in looks like this.    	  我々が今生きている世界はこんな感じです  
 And the question is, is this good news, or bad news?    	  ここで出てくる問いは これはいいニュースか 悪いニュースか？  
 And the answer is, "yes."    	  その答えはYesです  
   We all know what's good about it,  so I'm going to talk about what's bad about it.    	   我々はみんな良さについては知っています ですので私は悪い面について 話したいと思います  
 All of this choice has two effects,  two negative effects on people.    	  これら全ての選択には二つの効果があります 二つの悪い効果です  
 One effect, paradoxically,  is that it produces paralysis, rather than liberation.    	  一つは 矛盾しているのですが これが開放感ではなく 無力感を生むということです  
 With so many options to choose from,  people find it very difficult to choose at all.    	  あまりにも多くの選択肢を前にすると 人は選択が非常に難しくなってしまいます  
 I'll give you one very dramatic example of this:  a study that was done of investments in voluntary retirement plans.    	  これの非常にいい例をひとつ出しましょう 定年後の年金投資計画に関する研究で 私の同僚が  
 A colleague of mine got access to investment records from Vanguard,  the gigantic mutual-fund company  of about a million employees and about 2,000 different workplaces.    	  ヴァンガードという巨大な投資信託会社から 約２０００か所の職場に渡る 約100万人の社員の情報を手に入れたのです  
 And what she found  is that for every 10 mutual funds the employer offered,  rate of participation went down two percent.    	  彼女が調べたところによると 会社が提示する投資信託が１０件増えるごとに 参加率が２パーセント落ちた という結果が出たのです  
 You offer 50 funds -- 10 percent fewer employees participate  than if you only offer five. Why?    	  50件の投資信託を提示すると 5件提示した時と比べて 参加する社員は10％減る 何故でしょう？  
 Because with 50 funds to choose from,  it's so damn hard to decide which fund to choose,  that you'll just put it off until tomorrow.    	  それは 50件もの投資信託が提示されると どれを選べばいいのか決めるのが難しくなり 後回しにしてしまうのです  
 And then tomorrow,  and tomorrow, and tomorrow,  and of course tomorrow never comes.    	  それで 一日一日と延ばしていき それがどんどん積み重なって 結局決断を下す事はなくなるのです  
 Understand that not only does this mean  that people are going to have to eat dog food when they retire  because they don't have enough money put away,  it also means that making the decision is so hard  that they pass up significant matching money from the employer.    	  理解しなくてはならないのは これが人々が 引退した時資金不足に陥り ドッグフードを食べざるを得ない状況に 陥るということを意味するだけでなく 決断を下す事があまりにも難しいので 会社から受け取る権利のある資金を 放棄してしまっているということです  
 By not participating, they are passing up as much as 5,000 dollars a year  from the employer, who would happily match their contribution.    	  彼等は参加しないことによって 年間5000ドルもの 会社が喜んで提供すべき資金を 受ける権利を放棄してしまうのです  
 So paralysis is a consequence of having too many choices.    	  この無力感は 選択が多すぎることに起因しています  
 And I think it makes the world look like this.    	  そして世界をこのようにしてしまう  
 [And lastly, for all eternity, French, bleu cheese, or ranch?]   You really want to get the decision right if it's for all eternity, right?    	   [最後にドレッシングですが フレンチ ブルーチーズ、 「ランチ」のどれに？] 今後無限に影響を及ぼす決断は 正しく下したいですよね？  
 You don't want to pick the wrong mutual fund, or the wrong salad dressing.    	  間違った投資信託や ましてや 間違ったドレッシングを選びたくはない  
 So that's one effect. The second effect  is that even if we manage to overcome the paralysis and make a choice,  we end up less satisfied with the result of the choice  than we would be if we had fewer options to choose from.    	  という これが一つの影響です 二つ目の影響は このような無力感に打ち勝って 決断を下したとしても 選択肢が少なかった時と比べて 決断の結果に対して 得られる満足度は低いということです  
 And there are several reasons for this.    	  これにはいくつかの理由があります  
 One of them is that with a lot of different salad dressings to choose from,  if you buy one, and it's not perfect -- and what salad dressing is? --  it's easy to imagine you could have made a different choice  that would have been better.    	  ひとつは ドレッシングの選択肢がたくさんあると 一つ買ってそれが完璧ではなかった時 完璧であった試しがありましたか？ もっといいものを選べたはずなのに と想像することは いとも たやすいことです  
 And what happens  is this imagined alternative induces you to regret the decision you made,  and this regret subtracts from the satisfaction you get out of the decision you made,  even if it was a good decision.    	  そこで何が起こるかというと この取らなかった選択肢が 自分の決断を後悔させることになり この後悔が下した決断の満足度から 差し引かれていくのです 例えそれがとてもいい決断だったとしても  
 The more options there are, the easier it is to regret anything at all  that is disappointing about the option that you chose.    	  選択肢が増えれば増える程 自分が選んだオプションに対し 不満を感じやすいことになります  
 Second, what economists call "opportunity costs."    	  二つ目は 経済学者が機会費用と呼ぶものです  
 Dan Gilbert made a big point this morning  of talking about how much the way in which we value things  depends on what we compare them to.    	  今朝 ダン・ギルバート氏が 我々の価値判断は 比較対象されるものに 影響されると言う点を その講演の中で語っておられました  
 Well, when there are lots of alternatives to consider,  it is easy to imagine the attractive features  of alternatives that you reject  that make you less satisfied with the alternative that you've chosen.    	  多くの選択肢を検討しなくてはならないと 選ばなかった選択肢の良いところを 想像し 選んだ選択肢に その分不満を持つ度合いが多くなることは たやすく想像できます  
 Here's an example.    	  ここに一つの例があります  
 [I can't stop thinking about those other available parking spaces on W 85th street] Sorry if you're not New Yorkers.    	  ニューヨークから来た人には悪いのですが [85番街の駐車スペースが気になるんだ]  
 Here's what you're supposed to be thinking.    	  このように考えてください [85番街の駐車スペースが気になるんだ]  
 Here's this couple on the Hamptons.    	  ここにハンプトンズのカップルがいます  
 Very expensive real estate.    	  高価な邸宅に暮らし  
 Gorgeous beach. Beautiful day. They have it all to themselves.    	  素晴らしい浜辺で過ごす 素晴らしい日です 全てを手に入れてる  
 What could be better?    	  他に何を望むというのでしょう  
 "Well, damn it," this guy is thinking,  "It's August. Everybody in my Manhattan neighborhood is away.    	  この男性は思ってます 「ええい くそっ 今は八月で マンハッタンの隣人達は みんなどこかに出かけている  
 I could be parking right in front of my building."    	  だからマンションの目の前の 駐車場が空いているじゃないか」  
 And he spends two weeks nagged by the idea that he is missing the opportunity, day after day, to have a great parking space.    	  そして２週間 毎日毎日 あの素晴らしい駐車スペースを逃している  
 Opportunity costs  subtract from the satisfaction we get out of what we choose,  even when what we choose is terrific.    	  という考えに 捕われているのです 機会費用は 我々の選択が たとえどんなに良いものであっても その満足度から 差し引かれていくのです  
 And the more options there are to consider,  the more attractive features of these options  are going to be reflected by us as opportunity costs.    	  だから選択肢が多ければ多いほど またそれらが魅力的であればあるほど それらは機会費用として 我々に跳ね返ってくるのです  
 Here's another example.    	  もう一つの例を挙げましょう  
 Now this cartoon makes a lot of points.    	  この漫画は多くの点を示しています  
 It makes points about living in the moment as well,  and probably about doing things slowly.    	  ひとつは 今を生きるという点 また ゆっくりと時間をかけてやるということ  
 But one point it makes is that whenever you're choosing one thing,  you're choosing not to do other things  that may have lots of attractive features,  and it's going to make what you're doing less attractive.    	  でも一つあげるとしたら どれか一つのことを選んだとしたら 他の事をやらないことを選んだ ということでもある そしてその他のことには たくさんの魅力的なことがあるかもしれない そのことが今自分がやっていることから 魅力を損ねるのです  
 Third: escalation of expectations.    	  三つ目は期待値の増大です  
 This hit me when I went to replace my jeans.    	  これはジーパンを買い換えに行った時に 気がついたのですが  
 I wear jeans almost all the time.    	  私はいつもジーパンを履いてます  
 There was a time when jeans came in one flavor,  and you bought them, and they fit like crap,  they were incredibly uncomfortable,  if you wore them and washed them enough times,  they started to feel OK.    	  以前はジーパンは一種類しかなく それを購入して 全然体にあってなくて 信じられないくらい着心地も悪くて でも長い事履いて何度も洗うことによって なんとなく良くなっていった  
 I went to replace my jeans after years of wearing these old ones,  and I said, "I want a pair of jeans. Here's my size."    	  そこで何年も何年も履いていたジーパンを 買い替えるために出かけていって 「ジーパンが欲しい 私のサイズはこれです」 と言いました  
 And the shopkeeper said,  "Do you want slim fit, easy fit, relaxed fit?    	  すると店員が 「スリムとストレートとリラックスと どれにしますか？  
 You want button fly or zipper fly? You want stonewashed or acid-washed?    	  ボタンフライかジッパーにしますか？ ストーンウォッシュそれともアシッド？  
 Do you want them distressed?    	  ダメージ加工のものにしますか？  
 You want boot cut, tapered, blah blah." On and on he went.    	  ブーツカットにするかテーパードにするか それともそれとも」と永遠に続く  
 My jaw dropped. And after I recovered, I said,  "I want the kind that used to be the only kind."    	  私は呆れて何も言えなくなって しまったのですが ほどなくして 「以前一つしかなかったやつと 同じものが欲しい」と言ったのです  
   He had no idea what that was,   so I spent an hour trying on all these damn jeans,  and I walked out of the store -- truth! -- with the best-fitting jeans I had ever had. I did better.    	   彼はそれがどんなものか 見当もつかなかったので 私はいろいろのジーパンを １時間にも渡り試着して 正直に言うと今までで最高にフィットした ジーパンを手に入れてお店を後にしました  
 All this choice made it possible for me to do better. But --  I felt worse.    	  これらの多くの選択肢が 私が最高のものを選ぶ事を可能にしました でも気分は最悪でした  
 Why? I wrote a whole book to try to explain this to myself.    	  何故か？それを自分に説明するために 本を１冊書きました  
 The reason I felt worse is that,  with all of these options available,  my expectations about how good a pair of jeans should be went up.    	  私の気分が最悪だった理由は これだけ多くの選択肢が 与えられていることで 私にとっての良いジーパンの 期待値が上がったからです  
 I had very low, no particular expectations when they only came in one flavor.    	  もともと 選択肢が一つしかなかった時は 全く期待などしていなかったのです  
 When they came in 100 flavors, damn it, one of them should've been perfect.    	  それが100に増えてしまったとたんに、 どれかひとつ完璧であるべきだと  
 And what I got was good, but it wasn't perfect.    	  そして私が得たものは良いものだったけど 完璧ではない  
 And so I compared what I got to what I expected,  and what I got was disappointing in comparison to what I expected.    	  そこで期待していたものと 実際のものを比較して 期待していたものと比べて 満足度の低いものを得たのでした  
 Adding options to people's lives  can't help but increase the expectations people have  about how good those options will be.    	  人々の生活に選択肢を増やすことは それらの選択肢に対する 期待値を増大させることを 余儀なくさせてしまいます  
 And what that's going to produce is less satisfaction with results,  even when they're good results.    	  そしてそれは結果がたとえ良くても その満足度を より少なくするということを生み出します [どれも素晴らしそう 間違いなくがっかりする]  
 Nobody in the world of marketing knows this. [It all looks so great. I can't wait to be disappointed.]  Because if they did, you wouldn't all know what this was about.    	  マーケティング業界は誰もこれを知りません [どれも素晴らしそう 間違いなくがっかりする] 知っていたとしたら 誰もこれが何の事がわからないでしょうから  
 The truth is more like this.    	  真実とはこのようなものです  
 [Everything was better back when everything was worse]  The reason that everything was better back when everything was worse  is that when everything was worse,  it was actually possible for people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise.    	   [全てがひどかった頃の方が全てが良かった] 全てががひどかった頃の方が 全てが良かった理由とは 何もかもが良く無かった頃は 良い意味での驚きをもたらす体験をすることが 可能だったからです  
 Nowadays, the world we live in -- we affluent, industrialized citizens,  with perfection the expectation --  the best you can ever hope for  is that stuff is as good as you expect it to be. You will never be pleasantly surprised  because your expectations, my expectations, have gone through the roof.    	  今現在 我々裕福な産業国に住む市民が この世界で生きている限り 期待値が完璧を求めている中で 望みうる最高のことは 期待通りということなのです 良い意味での驚きというものは あり得なくなっている それは我々の期待値が 天井知らずになってしまったからなのです  
 The secret to happiness -- this is what you all came for --  the secret to happiness is low expectations.    	  皆さんが今日ここに来た目的 幸せを得る秘密とは 期待値を低く持つということです  
   [You'll do]   just a little autobiographical moment --  that I actually am married to a wife,  and she's really quite wonderful.    	   [頼んだよ] （拍手） ひとつ 個人的な話をします 私は大変素晴らしい女性を 妻としています  
 I couldn't have done better. I didn't settle.    	  これ以上はないというくらい 妥協しませんでした  
 But settling isn't always such a bad thing.    	  でも妥協するというのは 必ずしも悪い事ではありません  
 Finally -- One consequence of buying a bad-fitting pair of jeans  when there is only one kind to buy  is that when you are dissatisfied, and you ask why,  the answer is clear: the world is responsible.    	  最後にきちんとフィットしていない ジーパンを買う事の 悪影響の一つとして 買うものが一種類しかない場合 満足していない理由を考えてみて 誰の責任か 答えは明確です  
 What could you do?    	  この世の中が悪い あなたに何ができたでしょう？  
 When there are hundreds of different styles of jeans available,  and you buy one that is disappointing,  and you ask why, who's responsible?    	  ジーパンの種類が何百もあるとなって 満足のいかないものを買ってしまった時 誰の責任かと自問自答すると  
 It is equally clear that the answer to the question is "you."    	  同じように明確に答えは あなた自身なのです  
 You could have done better.    	  あなたはもっといいものを選べたはずです  
 With a hundred different kinds of jeans on display,  there is no excuse for failure.    	  何百種類ものジーパンを前にして 失敗は許されません  
 And so when people make decisions,  and even though the results of the decisions are good,  they feel disappointed about them;  they blame themselves.    	  だから人々が決断を下す時 またその決断が たとえいいものであったとしても それに満足が得られなかったら 自分自身を責めるのです  
 Clinical depression has exploded in the industrial world in the last generation.    	  ここ数10年で産業国において鬱病が 爆発的に増加しました  
 I believe a significant -- not the only, but a significant -- contributor  to this explosion of depression, and also suicide,  is that people have experiences that are disappointing  because their standards are so high,  and then when they have to explain these experiences to themselves,  they think they're at fault.    	  私は 鬱病や自殺が爆発的に増えた 大きな要因は ―これだけではありませんが― 人々の期待値が高すぎて その結果 経験が不満足なものに なってしまっているという ことがあると思っています そしてそのような体験を自分自身に 説明しようとする際 全て 自分の責任だと思ってしまうのです  
 And so the net result is that we do better in general, objectively,  and we feel worse.    	  すると総体的な結果として 一般的に 客観的には良い事になっているのに 気持ちは最悪になっています  
 So let me remind you.    	  そこで皆さん覚えていてください  
 This is the official dogma, the one that we all take to be true,  and it's all false. It is not true.    	  これが皆が自明のこととして信じている 公式教義ですが それはみんな嘘っぱち 真実ではないのです  
 There's no question that some choice is better than none,  but it doesn't follow from that that more choice is better than some choice.    	  全く選択肢がないよりは 多少あった方がいいに決まっています だからといって選択肢は 多ければ多いほどいいわけではありません  
 There's some magical amount. I don't know what it is.    	  私にはわかりませんが 秘密の数値があるのでしょう  
 I'm pretty confident that we have long since passed the point  where options improve our welfare.    	  私は選択肢の多さが 我々に繁栄をもたらすという地点を とっくに通過してしまったと 自信を持って言えます  
 Now, as a policy matter -- I'm almost done --  as a policy matter, the thing to think about is this:  what enables all of this choice in industrial societies is material affluence.    	  そこで 政策問題として もう少しで終わりますよ 政策問題として考えなくてはならないのは 次の点です 産業社会において選択肢を与えているものは 物質的な豊かさです  
 There are lots of places in the world,  and we have heard about several of them,  where their problem is not that they have too much choice.    	  この世の中には 選択肢の多さが問題に なっているのではないところが まだ数多くあることを 我々は聞き知っています  
 Their problem is that they have too little.    	  彼等の問題は選択肢が少なすぎることです  
 So the stuff I'm talking about is the peculiar problem  of modern, affluent, Western societies.    	  だから私が言っていることは 近代の 豊かな西欧社会独特の問題なのです  
 And what is so frustrating and infuriating is this:  Steve Levitt talked to you yesterday  about how these expensive and difficult-to-install child seats  don't help. It's a waste of money.    	  そこで非常に不愉快でいらいらさせるのは 次の点です スティーブ・レヴィットが 昨日皆さんにお話しした 高価で取扱が難しいチャイルドシートが 何の効果もなくお金の無駄だということ  
 What I'm telling you is that these expensive, complicated choices --  it's not simply that they don't help.    	  私が言いたいのは このような高価で難しい選択肢が 役に立たないだけではない  
 They actually make us worse off.    	  実際には危害を加えるのです  
 If some of what enables people in our societies  to make all of the choices we make  were shifted to societies in which people have too few options,  not only would those people's lives be improved,  but ours would be improved also,  which is what economists call a "Pareto-improving move."    	  我々をより悪い方へと導く事になるのです 我々の社会において 多くの選択肢を可能にしているものを 選択肢が少なすぎる社会に 移す事ができたとしたら 選択肢の少なすぎる社会の人たちの 生活が向上するだけでなく 我々の生活も向上するのです これが 経済学者が言うところの パレート改善ということです  
 Income redistribution will make everyone better off -- not just poor people --  because of how all this excess choice plagues us.    	  収入の再分配は 貧しい人たちだけでなく 全ての人たちを幸せにします それは多すぎる選択肢の悩みから 解放されるからです  
 So to conclude. [You can be anything you want to be -- no limits]  You're supposed to read this cartoon, and, being a sophisticated person, say,  "Ah! What does this fish know?    	  結論として この漫画を読んだ時 [限界などない ―願ったとおりになれるのだ] 洗練された人は 「この魚が何を知っているのだろう この金魚鉢の中では 何も可能性などないことを  
 You know, nothing is possible in this fishbowl."    	  知っているでしょうに」と言うべきなのです  
 Impoverished imagination, a myopic view of the world --  and that's the way I read it at first.    	  想像力の欠如 近視眼的な世界観 私も初めはそのように解釈していました  
 The more I thought about it, however,  the more I came to the view that this fish knows something.    	  でも色々考えを進めて行くうちに この魚は何事かを知っているかもしれない と思うようになりました  
 Because the truth of the matter  is that if you shatter the fishbowl so that everything is possible,  you don't have freedom. You have paralysis.    	  それは 究極のところ 可能性を広げるために 金魚鉢を叩き割ってしまったら 得られるのは自由ではなく 無力感だからです  
 If you shatter this fishbowl so that everything is possible,  you decrease satisfaction.    	  可能性を広げるために 金魚鉢を叩き割ってしまったら 満足度を低下させてしまいます  
 You increase paralysis, and you decrease satisfaction.    	  無力感を増大させ 満足度を低下させる  
 Everybody needs a fishbowl.    	  みんなが金魚鉢を必要としています  
 This one is almost certainly too limited --  perhaps even for the fish, certainly for us.    	  今あるものはどうしても限界がある 我々にとってだけでなく 魚にとってさえも  
 But the absence of some metaphorical fishbowl is a recipe for misery,  and, I suspect, disaster.    	  でも隠喩的な金魚鉢の欠如は 不幸を作るレシピに過ぎません また 大災害のもとにもなることでしょう  
 Thank you very much.    	  ありがとうございました  
 Several years ago here at TED, Peter Skillman  introduced a design challenge  called the marshmallow challenge.    	  数年前のTEDでピーター スキルマンが マシュマロ チャレンジという デザインの課題を紹介してくれました  
 And the idea's pretty simple:  Teams of four have to build the tallest free-standing structure  out of 20 sticks of spaghetti,  one yard of tape, one yard of string  and a marshmallow.    	  ルールはとても単純です ４人から成るチームが 20本のスパゲッティと テープとひもを90センチずつ、それにマシュマロで できるだけ高い自立式の建造物を作るのです  
 The marshmallow has to be on top.    	  マシュマロを一番上に乗せなければなりません  
 And, though it seems really simple, it's actually pretty hard  because it forces people  to collaborate very quickly.    	  簡単そうですが、実はかなり難しいんです チームの人と素早く 協力しなければいけませんから  
 And so, I thought this was an interesting idea,  and I incorporated it into a design workshop.    	  これは面白いと思って デザインの講習に組み込んでみました  
 And it was a huge success.    	  大成功でした  
 And since then, I've conducted  about 70 design workshops across the world  with students and designers and architects,  even the CTOs of the Fortune 50,  and there's something about this exercise  about the nature of collaboration,  and I'd like to share some of them with you.    	  それ以来 世界中で70回ぐらい行っています 学生やデザイナーや建築家、そして フォーチュン50企業のCTOまでが参加しています この演習には 共同作業の本質に関わる 深い教訓が含まれています その一部をご紹介します  
 So, normally, most people begin  by orienting themselves to the task.    	  通常、多くの人々は 課題の確認から取りかかります  
 They talk about it, they figure out what it's going to look like,  they jockey for power.    	  課題について話し、どんな形にすべきか検討し 主導権争いをします  
 Then they spend some time planning, organizing,  they sketch and they lay out spaghetti.    	  それからしばらくは計画と準備に時間を割きます スケッチを描いてスパゲティの配置を決めます  
 They spend the majority of their time  assembling the sticks into ever-growing structures.    	  持ち時間の大半は スパゲッティを組み立てて建造物を高くすることに費やされ  
 And then finally, just as they're running out of time,  someone takes out the marshmallow,  and then they gingerly put it on top,  and then they stand back, and -- ta-da! --  they admire their work.    	  終了時間の間際になってようやく 誰かがマシュマロを取り出し 慎重にそれを一番上に置き 後ろに下がって「やったー！」 自分たちの作品を褒め称えます  
 But what really happens, most of the time,  is that the "ta-da" turns into an "uh-oh,"  because the weight of the marshmallow causes the entire structure  to buckle and to collapse.    	  でも多くの場合実際には 「やったー」が「あーあ」に変わります マシュマロの重みで建造物全体が ひしゃげて潰れてしまうからです  
 So there are a number of people  who have a lot more "uh-oh" moments than others,  and among the worst are recent graduates of business school.    	  ある種の人々は、他の人と比べ 「あーあ」という結果になりがちです 一番ひどいのはビジネススクールの新卒者たちです  
   They lie, they cheat, they get distracted  and they produce really lame structures.    	   嘘をつき、ズルをし、気を散らせて ほんとうにひどい建造物を作ります  
 And of course there are teams  that have a lot more "ta-da" structures,  and among the best are recent graduates of kindergarten.    	  もちろん「やったー」という結果に なることの多いグループもあります 一番上手なのは幼稚園の新卒者たちです  
   And it's pretty amazing.    	   本当に驚くべきことです  
 As Peter tells us,  not only do they produce the tallest structures,  but they're the most interesting structures of them all.    	  ピーターが言うように 幼稚園児たちは高いだけでなく 一番面白い建造物を作ります  
 So the question you want to ask is:  How come? Why? What is it about them?    	  皆さん疑問に思われるでしょう なぜか？ 何によってそうなるのか？  
 And Peter likes to say that  none of the kids spend any time  trying to be CEO of Spaghetti, Inc. Right?    	  ピーターはこう言います 「子どもたちはスパゲッティ株式会社の 社長になろうなんてしていないのです」そのとおり  
 They don't spend time jockeying for power.    	  権力争いで時間を無駄にはしません  
 But there's another reason as well.    	  でも別の理由もあります  
 And the reason is that business students are trained  to find the single right plan, right?    	  ビジネススクールの学生たちは 適切なプランを1つ見出すように教育されています  
 And then they execute on it.    	  そしてプランの通りに実施します  
 And then what happens is, when they put the marshmallow on the top,  they run out of time and what happens?    	  彼らがマシュマロを一番上に乗せる頃には 時間がなくなっています そして何が起きるか？  
 It's a crisis.    	  危機です  
 Sound familiar? Right.    	  聞いたことがあるような状況ですね？  
 What kindergarteners do differently  is that they start with the marshmallow,  and they build prototypes, successive prototypes,  always keeping the marshmallow on top,  so they have multiple times to fix when they build prototypes along the way.    	  幼稚園児たちが違っているのは マシュマロから始めるところです いつもマシュマロを一番上に置いて 次々と試作品を作ります だから出来の悪い試作品を何度も修正できるのです  
 Designers recognize this type of collaboration  as the essence of the iterative process.    	  デザイナーの方なら、そのような作業こそ 反復型プロセスの本質だと気付かれるでしょう  
 And with each version, kids get instant feedback  about what works and what doesn't work.    	  作るたびにフィードバックが得られ 上手く行く点、行かない点がすぐにわかります  
 So the capacity to play in prototype is really essential,  but let's look at how different teams perform.    	  試作品を作る能力は本当に重要なのです チームのタイプごとの成績を見てみましょう  
 So the average for most people is around 20 inches;  business schools students, about half of that;  lawyers, a little better, but not much better than that,  kindergarteners, better than most adults.    	  全体の平均は50センチくらいです ビジネススクールの学生はその半分ぐらいで 弁護士はそれよりはましですが平均以下です 幼稚園児はほとんどの大人たちよりも優れています  
 Who does the very best?    	  一番良くできたのは誰でしょう？  
 Architects and engineers, thankfully.    	  建築家とエンジニアです　少しほっとしますね  
   Thirty-nine inches is the tallest structure I've seen.    	   99センチというのが私の見た最高記録です  
 And why is it? Because they understand triangles  and self-reinforcing geometrical patterns  are the key to building  stable structures.    	  なぜか？ 彼らは安定した建造物を作るには 三角形と自己強化する幾何学構造が キーポイントになることを 知っているからです  
 So CEOs, a little bit better than average,  but here's where it gets interesting.    	  CEOたちは平均よりも少し良い結果を出しています でも面白いことに  
 If you put you put an executive admin. on the team,  they get significantly better.    	  チームに管理責任者を置くと 彼らの成績が著しく上がるのです  
   It's incredible. You know, you look around, you go, "Oh, that team's going to win."    	   全体を見回したときに「あそこが勝つな」と 終わる前からわかります どうしてでしょう？  
 You can just tell beforehand. And why is that?    	  管理役の人々はファシリテーションという  
 Because they have special skills of facilitation.    	  特殊技能を持っているからです  
 They manage the process, they understand the process.    	  彼らはプロセスを理解し、管理します  
 And any team who manages  and pays close attention to work  will significantly improve the team's performance.    	  どのチームであれ 作業を注意深く観察し管理すれば パフォーマンスを大幅に向上させることができます  
 Specialized skills and facilitation skills  are the combination that leads to strong success.    	  特殊技能とファシリテーションの技能 そしてその組み合わせが大きな成功へと導くのです  
 If you have 10 teams that typically perform,  you'll get maybe six or so that have standing structures.    	  ごく普通の10チームがあったとすると 多分６チームぐらいは建っている構造体を作るでしょう  
 And I tried something interesting.    	  それで面白いことを試してみました  
 I thought, let's up the ante, once.    	  掛け金を上げようと思ったのです  
 So I offered a 10,000 dollar prize of software to the winning team.    	  優勝チームには１万ドル分のソフトウェアを贈ることにしました  
 So what do you think happened to these design students?    	  するとデザインを学ぶ学生たちに何が起きたと思いますか？  
 What was the result?    	  結果はどうなったのか？  
 Here's what happened:  Not one team had a standing structure.    	  こうなりました １チームとして立っている構造体ができなかったのです  
 If anyone had built, say, a one inch structure,  they would have taken home the prize.    	  たった3センチでも良いから立つものを作っていたら 賞品を持ち帰れたというのに  
 So, isn't that interesting? That high stakes  have a strong impact.    	  高額賞品の存在が甚だしい影響を生む というのは面白いですね  
 We did the exercise again with the same students.    	  ４ヶ月後、同じ学生たちにもう一度演習をさせました  
 What do you think happened then?    	  今度はどうなったと思いますか？  
 So now they understand the value of prototyping.    	  彼らは試作品を作ることの重要性を理解し  
 So the same team went from being the very worst  to being among the very best.    	  最低のチームから トップクラスの成績を残すチームになったのです  
 They produced the tallest structures in the least amount of time.    	  最小限の時間で最も高い建造物を作りました  
 about the nature of incentives and success.    	  ここに動機づけと成功の性質についての  
 So, you might ask: Why would anyone  actually spend time writing a marshmallow challenge?    	  重要な教訓があります どうしてマシュマロチャレンジなんかを  
 And the reason is, I help create  digital tools and processes  to help teams build cars and video games  and visual effects.    	  やっているのかと疑問に思われるかもしれません その理由は、私の仕事が デジタルツールやプロセスを作って 車やゲームや視覚効果の制作者たちを 手助けすることだからです  
 And what the marshmallow challenge does  is it helps them identify the hidden assumptions.    	  そしてマシュマロ チャレンジは 彼らが隠れた仮定を見出すのに役立つのです  
 Because, frankly,  every project has its own marshmallow, doesn't it?    	  なぜならば 実のところ どんなプロジェクトにも固有のマシュマロがあるからです  
 The challenge provides a shared experience,  a common language,  a common stance to build the right prototype.    	  この課題を通し、適切な試作をするための 共通の体験、共通の言葉 共通の態度が築かれるのです  
 of this so simple exercise.    	  それが この実に単純な演習の  
 And those of you who are interested  may want to go to MarshmallowChallenge.com.    	  価値なのです 興味を持った方は marshmallowchallenge.comをご覧ください  
 It's a blog that you can look at how to build the marshmallows.    	  どうやってマシュマロの建造物を建てるかを  
 There's step-by-step instructions on this.    	  見ることができます  
 There are crazy examples from around the world  of how people tweak and adjust the system.    	  マシュマロ チャレンジを行うための手順が書かれています 世界中の人が創意工夫した  
 There's world records that are on this as well.    	  クレージーな例が見られます マシュマロ チャレンジの世界記録もあります  
 And the fundamental lesson, I believe,  is that design truly is  a contact sport.    	  根本的な教訓は デザインというのは本当に コンタクトスポーツであるということです  
 It demands that we bring all of our senses to the task,  and that we apply the very best of our thinking,  our feeling and our doing  to the challenge that we have at hand.    	  作業に全感覚を投入することを要求され 自分の最高の 思考と感性と行動を適用して 手にした難問に向かう必要があります  
 And sometimes, a little prototype of this experience  from an "uh-oh" moment to a "ta-da" moment.    	  ちょっとした試作を行うだけで 「あーあ」を「やったー」に 変えられることもあります  
 And that can make a big difference.    	  そしてそれは大きな変化を起こし得るのです  
 Thank you very much.    	  どうもありがとうございました  
 Let's pretend right here we have a machine.    	  ここに機械があるとしましょう  
 A big machine, a cool, TED-ish machine,  and it's a time machine.    	  大型で かっこよい TED 的な機械です それはタイムマシンです  
 And everyone in this room has to get into it.    	  ここにいる皆さんに 乗って頂きます  
 And you can go backwards, you can go forwards;  you cannot stay where you are.    	  過去にも未来にも行けますが 現在に留まることはできません  
 And I wonder what you'd choose, because I've been asking my friends  this question a lot lately and they all want to go back.    	  どちらに行きますか？ 最近たくさんの友人に この質問をすると みんな過去に戻りたいと言います  
 I don't know. They want to go back before there were automobiles  or Twitter or "American Idol."    	  なぜか 自動車、ツイッター、アメリカン アイドルがなかった そんな時代に戻りたがります  
 I don't know.    	  なぜでしょうね  
 I'm convinced that there's some sort of pull  to nostalgia, to wishful thinking.    	  郷愁を誘うとか そう思わせる何かがあるのでしょう  
 And I understand that.    	  でも私は  
 I'm not part of that crowd, I have to say.    	  そんな人たちとは違うと 言わざるを得ません  
 I don't want to go back, and it's not because I'm adventurous.    	  過去には戻りたくありません 私が冒険好きだからではなく 後退などせず 前進していく --  
 It's because possibilities on this planet,  So I want to get in the machine, and I want to go forward.    	  この惑星の可能性を信じているからです だからタイムマシンで前に進みたいのです  
 This is the greatest time there's ever been on this planet  by any measure that you wish to choose:  health, wealth,  mobility, opportunity,  declining rates of disease ...    	  現在こそ この惑星のこれまでで最良の時代です どんなモノサシを選んでもです 健康 富 移動の自由 チャンス 病気にかかりにくい  
 There's never been a time like this.    	  こんな時代は他にありません  
 My great-grandparents died, all of them,  by the time they were 60.    	  ひいおじいさんの世代はみな 60歳までに亡くなりました  
 My grandparents pushed that number to 70.    	  おじいさんの世代は70歳まで延び  
 My parents are closing in on 80.    	  両親は80歳に近づきつつあります  
 a nine at the beginning of my death number.    	  私の寿命は90の大台に乗ることも  
 But it's not even about people like us,  because this is a bigger deal than that.    	  考えられます でも我々以外に もっと大きな影響を受けている人たちがいます  
 A kid born in New Delhi today can expect to live as long as  the richest man in the world did 100 years ago.    	  今日 ニューデリーに生まれる子供の寿命は 100年前の世界で 一番のお金持ちと同じです  
 Think about that, it's an incredible fact.    	  考えてみて下さい 信じられないことです  
 And why is it true?    	  どうしてそうなったのか  
 Smallpox. Smallpox killed billions  of people on this planet.    	  天然痘です この惑星では何十億人も 天然痘で亡くなってきました  
 It reshaped the demography of the globe  in a way that no war ever has.    	  どんな戦争で失われる人の数よりも 遥かに大きく人口を左右しました  
 It's gone. It's vanished.    	  でもそれは無くなりました 消滅したのです  
 We vanquished it. Puff.    	  我々が制圧したのです  
 In the rich world,  diseases that threatened millions of us just a generation ago  no longer exist, hardly.    	  豊かな国々では ひと世代前に何百万人もの命をおびやかしていた病気が もはやほとんど無くなりました  
 Diphtheria, rubella, polio ...    	  ジフテリアや風疹やポリオ  
 does anyone even know what those things are?    	  これが何のことだか分かりますか？  
 Vaccines, modern medicine,  our ability to feed billions of people,  those are triumphs of the scientific method.    	  ワクチンや近代的な薬や 何十億人もの人に食糧を供給できるようになったこと これらは科学的な方法の勝利です  
 And to my mind, the scientific method --  trying stuff out,  seeing if it works, changing it when it doesn't --  is one of the great accomplishments of humanity.    	  私が考える科学的な方法とは 何かを試して 効果が出ることを確認し 駄目ならやり方を変えるというもの これは人類の進歩を支えてきたのです  
 So that's the good news.    	  これは良い話でした  
 Unfortunately, that's all the good news  because there are some other problems, and they've been mentioned many times.    	  残念ながら良い話はこれでおしまいで あとは問題があります もう何年も語られている問題です  
 And one of them is that  despite all our accomplishments,  a billion people go to bed hungry  in this world every day.    	  問題のひとつとして ここまでの進歩をもってしても 世界の10億人は毎日 腹をすかせているという問題があります  
 That number's rising, and it's rising really rapidly, and it's disgraceful.    	  その人数は急速に増えつつあるという非常に残念な状況です  
 And not only that, we've used our imagination  to thoroughly trash this globe.    	  そればかりではなく 我々の英知で 地球が破壊されてしまいそうです  
 Potable water, arable land,  rainforests, oil, gas:  they're going away, and they're going away soon,  and unless we innovate our way out of this mess,  we're going away too.    	  飲用水 耕作に適した土地 熱帯雨林や石油 天然ガスなど 全てはなくなりそうです もうじきです この事態から抜け出す方法を発明しない限り 我々もおしまいになります  
 So the question is: Can we do that? And I think we can.    	  道を見いだせるか これが問題です 私は可能であると考えています  
 that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on.    	  大地を傷めずに 数十億人の食糧を  
 I think we can power this world with energy  that doesn't also destroy it.    	  生産することはできると考えています 世界を破壊することなく  
 I really do believe that, and, no, it ain't wishful thinking.    	  エネルギーを供給できると考えています 希望的観測などではなく 心から信じています  
 But here's the thing that keeps me up at night --  one of the things that keeps me up at night:  We've never needed progress in science more than we need it right now. Never.    	  しかしこんなことが気になって夜眠れないことがあります 眠れぬ夜の理由の一つは 科学の成果が最も必要な現在  
 to deploy it properly in the way that we can today.    	  その成果を最も適切に実施しうる  
 in many fields,  and yet I actually think we'd have to go back  hundreds, 300 years, before the Enlightenment,  to find a time when we battled progress,  when we fought about these things  more vigorously, on more fronts, than we do now.    	  現在なのに 多くの分野であきれた 実にあきれたことが 起きようとしているのです 進歩に抗っていた時代なんて 300年前の啓蒙思潮以前まで 遡らないとみつかりません 今以上に多くの局面でより活発に  
 People wrap themselves in their beliefs,  and they do it so tightly that you can't set them free.    	  進歩に抗っていた時代です 人々は自らの観念に固執しています 手が付けられないほどに固執しています  
 Not even the truth will set them free.    	  真実をもってしても 変えられないのです  
 And, listen, everyone's entitled to their opinion;  they're even entitled to their opinion about progress.    	  いいですか 誰でも自分の考えを持つことができます 進歩について自分の考えを持つこともできます  
 But you know what you're not entitled to?    	  みなさんが許されていないことは何でしょう？  
 You're not entitled to your own facts. Sorry, you're not.    	  独自の事実を見出すことは許されていないのです 申し訳ないけどだめです  
 And this took me awhile to figure out.    	  私が理解に至るまでには時間がかかりました  
 About a decade ago, I wrote a story about vaccines  for The New Yorker. A little story.    	  10年前のことです ニューヨーカー誌に ワクチンに関する短い記事を書きました  
 And I was amazed to find opposition:  opposition to what is, after all,  the most effective public health measure in human history.    	  反論を受けて驚きました 何を反論されたのかというと 要するに人類史上最高の保健対策への反論でした  
 I didn't know what to do,  so I just did what I do: I wrote a story and I moved on.    	  途方にくれました そこでいつもの通り 記事を書いたら 次の仕事に移りました  
 And soon after that,  I wrote a story about genetically engineered food.    	  その直後 遺伝子を組み換えた食糧の記事を書きました  
 Same thing, only bigger.    	  今度も同じ でももっと大きな反響がありました  
 People were going crazy.    	  狂ったような反応でした  
 So I wrote a story about that too,  and I couldn't understand why people thought this was "Frankenfoods,"  why they thought moving molecules around  in a specific, rather than a haphazard way,  was trespassing on nature's ground.    	  この反応についても記事にしました なぜこれを「フランケン フード」と 呼ぶ人がいるのか分からなかったのです 自然に生じる改変ではない 意図的な分子の改変が 自然の領域への侵害だ と見なされる理由が分かりませんでした  
 But, you know, I do what I do. I wrote the story, I moved on.    	  でも いつものように 記事を書いたら 次の記事に移ります  
 I mean, I'm a journalist.    	  だって 記者ですから  
 We type, we file, we go to dinner. It's fine.    	  原稿を書いて 提出して 夕食に出かける いいじゃないですか  
   But these stories bothered me,  and I couldn't figure out why, and eventually I did.    	   それでも こんな経験は私を悩ませました 理由が分からなかったのですが やがて気がつきました  
 And that's because those fanatics that were driving me crazy  weren't actually fanatics at all.    	  やっかいに思えた狂信家たちは 全く狂信的ではなかったのです  
 They were thoughtful people, educated people, decent people.    	  思慮深い人たちで教育もありまともな人たちでした  
 They were exactly like the people in this room.    	  ここに居る皆さんとまさにそっくり  
 And it just disturbed me so much.    	  私は本当に混乱しました  
 But then I thought, you know, let's be honest.    	  それから考えました ほら 素直になろう  
 We're at a point in this world  where we don't have the same relationship to progress that we used to.    	  この世界では 進歩と我々との関係が 今までとは変わりつつあるのです  
 We talk about it ambivalently.    	  進歩についての意見が相反するようになってきて  
 We talk about it in ironic terms with little quotes around it:  "progress."    	  皮肉なニュアンスを込めて かぎ括弧が付くようになりました 「進歩」です  
 Okay, there are reasons for that, and I think we know what those reasons are.    	  いいでしょう 皆さんもご存知のように そうなるには訳があります  
 We've lost faith in institutions,  in authority,  and sometimes in science itself,  and there's no reason we shouldn't have.    	  制度と権威に対する信頼が 損なわれてしまったのです ときには科学自身も信頼を失い 失うべきでなかったとも思っていません  
 You can just say a few names  and people will understand.    	  みなが納得する 具体例はすぐに上がります  
 Chernobyl, Bhopal, the Challenger,  Vioxx, weapons of mass destruction,  hanging chads.    	  チェルノブイリやボパールやチャレンジャー Vioxx の撤収や「大量破壊兵器」 投票用紙の不備  
 You know, you can choose your list.    	  だれでもこんなリストを作れます  
 There are questions and problems  with the people we used to believe were always right,  so be skeptical.    	  いつも正しいと思われていた所に 問題や課題が見つかっています 疑ってかからないといけません  
 Ask questions, demand proof, demand evidence.    	  質問して 証明と証拠を求めましょう  
 Don't take anything for granted.    	  そのまま受け入れられるものはありません  
 But here's the thing: When you get proof,  you need to accept the proof, and we're not that good at doing that.    	  問題は 証明がなされたときに それを受け入れる必要があるのですが それが簡単なことではないのです  
 And the reason that I can say that is because  we're now in an epidemic of fear  like one I've never seen and hope never to see again.    	  なぜそう言えるのか 恐怖という疫病が広まっているのです かつてないほど 二度と見たくないほど  
 About 12 years ago, there was a story published,  to the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine shot.    	  12年前のこと こんな話が広く知られました ハシカやオタフクカゼや風疹の予防接種によって 自閉症が疫病のように広がるという  
 Very scary.    	  恐ろしい話です 非常に恐ろしい  
 Tons of studies were done to see if this was true.    	  真偽を明らかにするために多くの研究が行われました  
 Tons of studies should have been done; it's a serious issue.    	  多くの研究がなされるべきでした 重大な問題ですから  
 The data came back.    	  データが得られました  
 The data came back from the United States, from England,  from Sweden, from Canada,  and it was all the same: no correlation,  no connection, none at all.    	  アメリカから イギリスから スウェーデンから カナダから 全て同じ結果でした 相関はない 因果関係はない 全くなし  
 It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter  because we believe anecdotes,  we believe what we see, what we think we see,  what makes us feel real.    	  問題はない 全然問題なし でも我々は エピソードの方を信じてしまうのです 我々は目にしたものや 見たと思うことや 真実と感じさせるものを信じてしまうのです  
 We don't believe a bunch of documents from a government official giving us data,  and I do understand that, I think we all do.    	  政府の官僚が提供するデータを記載した文書は 信じられないのです みなさんそうだろうと思います  
 But you know what?    	  そしてどうなるか  
 The result of that has been disastrous.    	  悲惨な結果が待ち受けます  
 Disastrous because here's a fact:  The United States is one of the only countries in the world  where the vaccine rate for measles is going down.    	  悲惨な事実です アメリカでは 世界で唯一 ハシカの予防接種の接種率が低下しつつあります  
 That is disgraceful,  and we should be ashamed of ourselves.    	  嘆かわしい事態であり 恥ずべきことです  
 It's horrible.    	  恐ろしいことです  
 What kind of a thing happened  that we could do that?    	  何が起きたら こんなことになるのでしょう？  
 Now, I understand it. I do understand it.    	  こういうことです 私には分かりました  
 Because, did anyone have measles here?    	  ここにハシカの患者さんはいらっしゃいますか？  
 Has one person in this audience ever seen someone die of measles?    	  ハシカで亡くなった方をご存知の人はいますか？  
 Doesn't happen very much.    	  めったに無いことなのです  
 Doesn't happen in this country at all,  but it happened 160,000 times in the world last year.    	  この国では起きないことなのです しかし地球では昨年 16万回起きたことです  
 That's a lot of death of measles --  20 an hour.    	  多くの命がハシカで失われています 一時間あたり 20 人です  
 But since it didn't happen here, we can put it out of our minds,  and people like Jenny McCarthy  can go around preaching messages  of fear and illiteracy from platforms  like "Oprah" and "Larry King Live."    	  ただ身の回りで起きていないから気にも留めないのです ジェニー マッカーシーのような連中は あちこちでトークショーのような場を使って 恐怖と無知のメッセージを 宣伝してまわります  
 And they can do it because  they don't link causation and correlation.    	  彼女たちがそんなことをできるのは 因果関係と相関関係を区別しないからです  
 They don't understand that these things seem the same,  but they're almost never the same.    	  同じように見えるこの２つは 全くといってよいほど違うことを分かっていないのです  
 And it's something we need to learn, and we need to learn it really soon.    	  この違いは重要ですから すぐにでも知る必要があります  
 This guy was a hero, Jonas Salk.    	  ヒーローを紹介します ジョナスソークです  
 He took one of the worst scourges of mankind away from us.    	  人類最悪の疫病の一つを根絶させた男です  
 No fear, no agony. Polio -- puff, gone.    	  ポリオの恐怖や苦悩は 共に消え去りました  
 That guy in the middle, not so much.    	  彼には及びませんが 真ん中の男は  
 His name is Paul Offit.    	  ポール オフィットです 多くの人と共同して  
 He just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a bunch of other people.    	  ロタウィルスのワクチンを開発しました  
 in the developing world every year.    	  発展途上国では 毎年 4-50 万人の 子供の命を救ってきました  
 Pretty good, right?    	  すばらしいでしょう  
 Well, it's good, except that Paul goes around talking about vaccines  and says how valuable they are  and that people ought to just stop the whining.    	  ポールがあちこちでワクチンの話をするということを除いては… 彼はそれがいかに価値があるか語り ワクチンを責めるのをやめよと言います  
 And he actually says it that way.    	  そういう言い方をするのです  
 So, Paul's a terrorist.    	  それで ポールはテロリストと呼ばれます  
 When Paul speaks in a public hearing,  he can't testify without armed guards.    	  公聴会でポールが話をするときには 武装したボディーガード無しでは話ができません  
 He gets called at home  because people like to tell him that they remember where his kids go to school.    	  家に電話がかかってきて お前の子供がどこの学校に通っているかわかっているぞ  
 And why? Because Paul made a vaccine.    	  と脅されるのです なぜ？ポールがワクチンを作ったからです  
 I don't need to say this, but vaccines are essential.    	  言うまでもなく ワクチンは必要不可欠なもの  
 You take them away, disease comes back,  horrible diseases. And that's happening.    	  これを無くしてしまえば 病気が復活します 恐ろしい病気が 実際に起きています  
 We have measles in this country now.    	  今では 国内にハシカが戻ってきました  
 And it's getting worse, and pretty soon kids  are going to die of it again because it's just a numbers game.    	  事態は悪化していて じきにハシカで 子供が亡くなる事態となるでしょう 数字からわかることです  
 And they're not just going to die of measles.    	  ハシカだけの問題ではありません  
 What about polio? Let's have that. Why not?    	  ポリオはどうか これを取り上げましょうか  
 A college classmate of mine wrote me a couple weeks ago and said  she thought I was a little strident.    	  大学の同級生から 数週間前に手紙をもらいました 私のことを少々目障りだというのです  
 No one's ever said that before.    	  こんなことを言われたのは初めてです  
 She wasn't going to vaccinate her kid against polio,  no way.    	  子供にポリオの予防接種をさせるつもりはない ありえない と言うのです  
 Fine.    	  いいでしょう  
 Why? Because we don't have polio. And you know what?    	  なぜ？ポリオは存在しないからです いいですか  
 We didn't have polio in this country yesterday.    	  国内には 昨日までポリオは存在しませんでした  
 Today, I don't know, maybe a guy got on a plane in Lagos this morning,  and he's flying to LAX, right now he's over Ohio.    	  今日は？知りませんよ ラゴスから今朝飛行機に乗って ロスにあるいはオハイオに向かっている男が  
 And he's going to land in a couple of hours, he's going to rent a car,  and he's going to come to Long Beach,  and he's going to attend one of these fabulous TED dinners tonight.    	  もう数時間で入国して 車を借りると ロングビーチに向かうかもしれません 今夜の豪華な TED ディナーに出席して  
 And he doesn't know that he's infected with a paralytic disease,  and we don't either because that's the way the world works.    	  自分がその麻痺性の病に感染しているとも知らず 我々もそうとは知らない 世界はそういうものなのですよ  
 That's the planet we live on. Don't pretend it isn't.    	  そんな惑星に暮らしているのです 知らないフリをしないで下さい  
 Now, we love to wrap ourselves in lies. We love to do it.    	  我々は ウソにくるまれることを好みます それが好きなのです  
 Everyone take their vitamins this morning?    	  今朝 ビタミンを飲んだ人はいますか？  
 Echinacea, a little antioxidant  to get you going.    	  抗酸化剤のエキナケアで 元気を出している人は？  
 I know you did because half of Americans do every day.    	  アメリカ人の半分は毎日飲んでいるのですから普通のことですね  
 They take the stuff, and they take alternative medicines,  and it doesn't matter how often  we find out that they're useless.    	  こんなサプリメントを口にして代替医療を実践するのです それが役に立たないということを どれほど目にしてもやめません  
 The data says it all the time.    	  データを調べればいつでもわかります  
 They darken your urine. They almost never do more than that.    	  尿に色が付きます それ以外何の作用もしません  
   It's okay, you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine?    	   構いません 色の濃い尿のために280億ドルを支払いたいのですね  
 I'm totally with you.    	  結構じゃないですか  
   Dark urine. Dark.    	   尿の色が濃いのです  
 Why do we do that? Why do we do that?    	  何のためでしたっけ？ なんでそんなことをするのでしたっけ？  
 Well, I think I understand, we hate Big Pharma.    	  もちろんわかります 大きな製薬会社が嫌だからです  
 We hate Big Government. We don't trust the Man.    	  巨大な政府が嫌なのです 彼らを信じていません  
 And we shouldn't: Our health care system sucks.    	  信用してはいけません 健康保険制度はひどいです  
 It's cruel to millions of people.    	  何百万人もの人を見捨てる制度です  
 It's absolutely astonishingly cold  and soul-bending to those of us who can even afford it.    	  まさしく驚異的に冷たい制度で お金を払える人でも気が気ではありません  
 So we run away from it, and where do we run?    	  近づかないようにしましょう どこに逃げたらいいでしょう  
 We leap into the arms of Big Placebo.    	  思い切ってプラセボ効果を信じてみましょう  
   That's fantastic. I love Big Placebo.    	   素晴らしい プラセボ万歳  
   But, you know, it's really a serious thing  because this stuff is crap,  and we spend billions of dollars on it.    	   いや 冗談ではありません クズのようなサプリに 数十億ドルです  
 And I have all sorts of little props here.    	  ここに様々なサプリを揃えました  
 None of it ... ginkgo, fraud;  echinacea, fraud;  acai -- I don't even know what that is  but we're spending billions of dollars on it -- it's fraud.    	  イチョウ — まがい物です エキナケア — まがい物 アカイ — そもそも何でしょう？ こんなまがい物に 数百億ドルを費やしています  
 And you know what? When I say this stuff, people scream at me,  and they say, "What do you care? Let people do what they want to do.    	  そしてさらに こんなことを言うと 皆さんに非難されます 「何が問題ですか？好きなようにさせなさいよ  
 It makes them feel good."    	  そうしたいというのだから」  
 And you know what? You're wrong.    	  いいですか 間違っています  
 if it's the secretary of HHS  who's saying, "Hmm, I'm not going to take the evidence of my experts on mammograms,"  or some cancer quack who wants to treat his patient  with coffee enemas.    	  保健社会福祉省の長官が 「マンモグラフィーについての専門家の意見は採用しない」 と発言しても別に構わないし 半可通がガンを コーヒー浣腸で治したいというなら  
 When you start down the road  where belief and magic replace evidence and science,  you end up in a place you don't want to be.    	  私の知ったことではない 証拠と科学よりも 信念と魔術が優先する世界を突き進めば 誰も望まぬ結果がもたらされます  
 You end up in Thabo Mbeki South Africa.    	  南アフリカのタボ ムベキのようになります  
 He killed 400,000 of his people  by insisting that beetroot,  garlic and lemon oil  were much more effective than the antiretroviral drugs  we know can slow the course of AIDS.    	  彼は AIDS の進行を遅くすることが知られた 抗レトロウイルス薬よりも ビート生姜とレモン汁の方が はるかに効果があると主張して 40万人の国民を死に追いやりました 他のどの国よりも酷くAIDSを蔓延させて  
 Hundreds of thousands of needless deaths  in a country that has been plagued  worse than any other by this disease.    	  何十万人もの国民に 不必要な死をもたらしたのです それとこれとは関係ないなどと  
 Please, don't tell me  there are no consequences to these things.    	  言わないで下さい 大いに関係しているのです  
 There are. There always are.    	  実は今 ばかばかしい思想が  
 Now, the most mindless epidemic  is this absurd battle between proponents of genetically engineered food  and the organic elite.    	  蔓延しています これは遺伝子組み換え作物の推進者と 有機農産物にこだわる人との  
 It's an idiotic debate. It has to stop.    	  闘いです 馬鹿げた論争です もう終りにしなければなりません  
 It's a debate about words, about metaphors.    	  言葉尻や喩え話の論争です  
 It's ideology, it's not science.    	  イデオロギーであり 科学ではありません  
 Every single thing we eat, every grain of rice,  every sprig of parsley,  every Brussels sprout  has been modified by man.    	  我々が口にするものは全て 米の一粒や パセリの一房や 芽キャベツに至るまで 人が改良した作物です  
 You know, there weren't tangerines in the garden of Eden.    	  エデンの園にはミカンは無かったのです  
 There wasn't any cantaloupe.   There weren't Christmas trees. We made it all.    	  メロンもありませんでした クリスマスツリーもありませんでした みんな作られたのです  
 We made it over the last 11,000 years.    	  過去一万一千年で作り上げたのです  
 And some of it worked, and some of it didn't.    	  うまく行ったものも そうでないものも  
 We got rid of the stuff that didn't.    	  うまくいかないものは消え去りました  
 Now we can do it in a more precise way --  and there are risks, absolutely --  but we can put something like vitamin A into rice,  and that stuff can help millions of people,  millions of people, prolong their lives.    	  そして今 さらに精緻な方法が得られました もちろん そこにはリスクが存在します それでも コメにビタミンAなどを導入することができて それは何百万人の人を救うのです 数百万人の寿命を長くします  
 You don't want to do that?    	  これをやりたくないのでしょうか  
 I have to say, I don't understand it.    	  理解できないこと と言わざるを得ません  
 We object to genetically engineered food.    	  遺伝子組み換え作物に反対します  
 Why do we do that?    	  なぜでしょう  
 Well, the things I constantly hear are:  Too many chemicals,  pesticides, hormones,  monoculture, we don't want giant fields  of the same thing, that's wrong.    	  いつも聞く説明は 化学物質や農薬やホルモンが 多すぎるから 単一作物を巨大な畑で作るのはよくないから 間違ったことだから  
 We don't companies patenting life.    	  生命の特許をどこかの会社に握られたくないから  
 We don't want companies owning seeds.    	  会社に種を支配されたくないから  
 And you know what my response to all of that is?    	  私はいつもこう答えます  
 Yes, you're right. Let's fix it.    	  おっしゃる通りです それは修正しましょう  
 It's true, we've got a huge food problem,  but this isn't science.    	  食糧に関して大きな問題があるのは 真実です でもこれは科学ではありません  
 This has nothing to do with science.    	  科学とは関係ない話です  
 It's law, it's morality, it's patent stuff.    	  法律や 倫理や 特許の問題です  
 You know science isn't a company.    	  科学は企業とは異なります  
 It's not a country.    	  国家とは異なります  
 It's not even an idea; it's a process.    	  アイデアとも別のものです  
 It's a process, and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't,  but the idea that we should not allow  science to do its job  because we're afraid,  is really very deadening,  and it's preventing millions of people  from prospering.    	  科学は方法論です 上手く行く時も だめな時もあります しかし 心配だからという理由で 科学的アプローチを許すべきではないという 考え方は 思考停止の最たるものです 何百万人もの人の幸せを 妨げているのです  
 You know, in the next 50 years  we're going to have to grow 70 percent more food than we do right now,  70 percent.    	  これから50年で 今よりも70%多く食糧を生産しなければなりません 70%です  
 This investment in Africa over the last 30 years.    	  ここ30年のアフリカへの投資をご覧ください  
 Disgraceful. Disgraceful.    	  不名誉なことです 不名誉なことです  
 They need it, and we're not giving it to them.    	  彼らが必要としている でも我々はそれを与えない  
 And why? Genetically engineered food.    	  なぜ 遺伝子を組み換えたものだから  
 We don't want to encourage people  to eat that rotten stuff, like cassava for instance.    	  キャッサバのようなロクでも無いものを 食べることを推奨したくないのです  
 Cassava's something that half a billion people eat.    	  およそ 五億人がキャッサバを食べています  
 It's kind of like a potato.    	  じゃがいもと多少似ています  
 It's just a bunch of calories. It sucks.    	  カロリーだけの食べ物です ひどいものです  
 It doesn't have nutrients, it doesn't have protein,  and scientists are engineering  all of that into it right now.    	  栄養素が含まれず タンパク質を含みません 科学者たちは 遺伝子を組み換えて 栄養素やタンパクを含ませようとしています  
 And then people would be able to eat it and they'd be able to not go blind.    	  そうすればこれを食べるだけで失明しなくなります  
 They wouldn't starve, and you know what?    	  飢えなくなります  
 That would be nice. It wouldn't be Chez Panisse,  but it would be nice.    	  素晴らしいことです 名店のメニューには載りませんが いいじゃないですか  
 And all I can say about this is:  Why are we fighting it?    	  私が聞きたいのは なぜこれに抵抗するのかということです  
 I mean, let's ask ourselves: Why are we fighting it?    	  なぜ抵抗するのか自問してください  
 Because we don't want to move genes around?    	  遺伝子を動かしたくないから？  
 This is about moving genes around. It's not about chemicals.    	  それは遺伝子の移動の話で 化学物質の話ではないですね  
 It's not about our ridiculous passion for hormones,  our insistence on having bigger food,  better food, singular food.    	  大騒ぎになっているホルモンの話でもないですね もっと大きく 優れた 並外れた食物を 求めることの話でもありませんね  
 This isn't about Rice Krispies,  this is about keeping people alive,  and it's about time we started to understand what that meant.    	  シリアル加工食品の話じゃありませんよ 私は命を救うことについて話しているのです そろそろ本質を分かってください  
 Because, you know something?    	  いいですか  
 If we don't, if we continue to act the way we're acting,  we're guilty of something that I don't think we want to be guilty of:  high-tech colonialism.    	  何も考えずに これまでと同じように振る舞い続けると 思わぬ罪を犯すことになります 先端技術の植民地主義です  
 There's no other way to describe what's going on here.    	  今行われていることは こう表現するしかありません  
 It's selfish, it's ugly,  it's beneath us,  and we really have to stop it.    	  利己的で 醜く 我々がやるべきことではありません それはもう止めなければなりません  
 So after this amazingly fun conversation,    you might want to say, "So, you still want to get in this  ridiculous time machine and go forward?"    	  ですからこの驚くほど愉快なお話が終わったときに  「それでも この変なタイムマシンで未来に 行きたいですか？」と聞かれるかもしれません  
 Absolutely. Absolutely, I do.    	  私なら絶対に 絶対に行きたいです  
 It's stuck in the present right now,  but we have an amazing opportunity.    	  今は身動きできませんが かつてない可能性を手にしています  
 We can set that time machine on anything we want.    	  思いのままにタイムマシンをセットできます  
 We can move it where we want to move it,  and we're going to move it where we want to move it.    	  私たちが行先を決められるのです 行きたいと願うところに向かっているのです  
 We have to have these conversations and we have to think,  but when we get in the time machine and we go ahead,  we're going to be happy we do.    	  もちろん議論をして考えることは必要です でもタイムマシンに乗って未来に進めば 進んで良かったと思うはずです  
 I know that we can,  and as far as I'm concerned,  that's something the world needs right now.    	  今の世界に必要なものが きっと成し遂げられると 私は信じています ありがとう  
   Thank you.    	   ありがとう  
 One day, Los Angeles Times columnist  Steve Lopez was walking along  the streets of downtown Los Angeles  when he heard beautiful music.    	  ある日 LAタイムズのコラムニスト スティーブ ロペスが ロスのダウンタウンを歩いていると 美しい音楽の調べを耳にしました  
 And the source was a man,  an African-American man,  charming, rugged, homeless,  playing a violin that only had two strings.    	  音の主は アフリカ系アメリカ人の男で 感じの良い無骨なホームレスでした 彼は弦がたったの2本しかないバイオリンを弾いていました  
 And I'm telling a story that many of you know,  because Steve's columns became the basis  for a book, which was turned into a movie,  with Robert Downey Jr. acting as Steve Lopez,  and Jamie Foxx as Nathaniel Anthony Ayers,  the Juilliard-trained double bassist  whose promising career was cut short  by a tragic affliction with paranoid schizophrenia.    	  この話をご存じの方も多いと思います スティーブのコラムは本になり さらに映画化もされたからです ロバート ダウニーJrがスティーブ役で ジェイミー フォックスがナサニエル エアーズを演じました ジュリアード音楽院で教育を受ける コントラバス奏者だった彼の約束されていた将来は 妄想型統合失調症という悲劇的な病気のために断たれました  
 Nathaniel dropped out of Juilliard, he suffered a complete breakdown,  and 30 years later he was living homeless  on the streets of Skid Row in downtown Los Angeles.    	  ジュリアードを退学し すっかり破綻し 30年後 ロスのダウンタウンの スキッドロウ地区で ホームレスとして暮らしていました  
 I encourage all of you to read Steve's book or to watch the movie  to understand not only the beautiful bond  that formed between these two men,  but how music helped shape that bond,  and ultimately was instrumental -- if you'll pardon the pun --  in helping Nathaniel get off the streets.    	  みなさんに是非スティーブの本をお読みになるか 映画をご覧になるようお勧めします 2人の間の絆がいかに築かれたのか 音楽がその絆を作る上でいかに力になったのか そして最終的にはナサニエルをどのように 路上の生活から救い出すことになったのか知ることができます  
 I met Mr. Ayers in 2008,  two years ago, at Walt Disney Concert Hall.    	  私が彼に出会ったのは 2年前 ウォルト ディズニー ホールでのことです  
 He had just heard a performance of Beethoven's First and Fourth symphonies,  and came backstage and introduced himself.    	  ベートーベンの交響曲の1番と4番を聞いた後 彼は舞台裏にやって来たのです  
 He was speaking in a very jovial and gregarious way  about Yo-Yo Ma and Hillary Clinton  and how the Dodgers were never going to make the World Series, all because of the treacherous first violin passage work  in the last movement of Beethoven's Fourth Symphony.    	  彼はとても生き生きと 社交的に話していました ヨーヨーマやヒラリー クリントンのこと さらにはドジャースが ワールドシリーズで勝てないだろうと… それもすべて ベートーベンの交響曲第4番の  
 And we got talking about music, and I got an email from Steve a few days later  saying that Nathaniel was interested in a violin lesson with me.    	  気まぐれなバイオリンの旋律が効果を上げていたからです その後何日かして スティーブからメールをもらい ナサニエルが私のバイオリンレッスンを受けたがっていると聞きました  
 Now, I should mention that Nathaniel refuses treatment  because when he was treated it was with shock therapy  and Thorazine and handcuffs,  and that scar has stayed with him for his entire life.    	  ひとつ申し上げておくと 彼は治療を拒んでいました 彼が以前治療を受けたとき それはショック療法と ソラジンと 手錠を使うものでした そしてその傷を その後ずっと引きずることになったのです  
 But as a result now, he is prone to  these schizophrenic episodes,  the worst of which can manifest themselves as  him exploding  and then disappearing for days,  wandering the streets of Skid Row,  exposed to its horrors, with the torment of his own mind  unleashed upon him.    	  そのため統合失調症の 発作を起こしがちでした 最悪の発作が起こると 彼は暴発し その後何日も姿を消し スキッドロウの通りをさまよい歩き 絶えず恐怖にさらされ 彼の心の中の苦痛がそのまま 外に現れ出ました  
 And Nathaniel was in such a state of agitation when we started our first lesson at Walt Disney Concert Hall --  he had a kind of manic glint in his eyes,  he was lost.    	  私たちがディズニー ホールで最初のレッスンを始めた時 彼はそのような興奮状態にありました 目は不自然な光りをたたえ  
 And he was talking about  invisible demons and smoke,  and how someone was poisoning him in his sleep.    	  心を失っていました 見えない悪魔や 煙や 眠っている間に毒を盛られたという話をしていました  
 And I was afraid,  not for myself, but I was afraid  that I was going to lose him,  that he was going to sink into one of his states,  and that I would ruin his relationship with the violin  if I started talking about scales  and arpeggios and other exciting forms of  didactic violin pedagogy.    	  私は怖れました 自分のことではありません 彼を失ってしまうかもしれないと怖れたのです 彼の状態は悪化しつつあり もし私がそこで音階やらアルペジオみたいなものを 説教じみた教授法で教え始めたら きっと彼のバイオリンとの関係を 壊してしまうと思いました  
   So, I just started playing.    	   それで直ぐさま弾き始めることにしました  
 And I played the first movement of the Beethoven Violin Concerto.    	  ベートーベンのバイオリン協奏曲の第1楽章を弾きました  
 And as I played,  I understood that there was a profound change  occurring in Nathaniel's eyes.    	  弾きながら ナサニエルの目にはっきりした変化が 現れるのがわかりました  
 It was as if he was in the grip of some invisible pharmaceutical,  a chemical reaction, for which my playing the music  was its catalyst.    	  私の演奏した音楽が契機となって 何か目に見えない薬のような化学反応が 起きたかのようでした  
 And Nathaniel's manic rage  was transformed into understanding,  a quiet curiosity and grace.    	  ナサニエルの病的な怒りは 理解と 落ち着いた興味と 品の良さに置き換わりました  
 And in a miracle, he lifted his own violin  and he started playing, by ear,  certain snippets of violin concertos  which he then asked me to complete -- Mendelssohn,  Tchaikovsky, Sibelius.    	  そして奇跡のように 自分のバイオリンを取り上げた彼は 聞き覚えているバイオリン協奏曲の断片を弾き始め 私に直してくれるように頼みました メンデルスゾーンに チャイコフスキーに シベリウスを弾きました  
 And we started talking about music, from Bach  to Beethoven and Brahms, Bruckner, all the B's,  from Bartók, all the way up to Esa-Pekka Salonen.    	  それから音楽について話しました バッハ、ベートーベン、ブラームス、ブルックナー バルトークからエサ＝ペッカ サロネンまで Bで始まる作曲家ばかり取り上げました  
 And I understood that he not only  had an encyclopedic knowledge of music,  but he related to this music at a personal level.    	  彼は百科事典的な 音楽の知識を持つばかりでなく 私的なレベルで音楽と深く結び付いているのがわかりました  
 He spoke about it with the kind of passion  and understanding that I share with my colleagues  in the Los Angeles Philharmonic.    	  彼は情熱と理解をもって音楽を語っており それは私がオケの仲間達と 共有しているものと変わりません  
 And through playing music and talking about music,  this man had transformed  from the paranoid, disturbed man  that had just come from walking the streets  of downtown Los Angeles  to the charming, erudite, brilliant, Juilliard-trained musician.    	  そして音楽を演奏し 音楽について語るうちに 彼は違う人間になっていました ロスのダウンタウンの路上から やってきたばかりの 偏執的な精神障害者から 魅力的で博識な ジュリアードの教育を受けた素晴らしい音楽家へと変わっていたのです  
 Music is medicine. Music changes us.    	  音楽は薬です 音楽は私たちを変えます  
 And for Nathaniel, music is sanity.    	  ナサニエルには 心を取り戻してくれるものです  
 Because music allows him to take his thoughts  and delusions and shape them  through his imagination and his creativity,  into reality.    	  音楽は彼の思考と 妄想を取り出して 想像力とクリエイティビティを通じて 現実の形にするのです  
 And that is an escape  from his tormented state.    	  それが彼を 苛まれた状態から解放します  
 And I understood that this was the very essence of art.    	  私はこれこそ芸術の本質なのだと思います  
 This was the very reason why we made music,  that we take something that exists within all of us  at our very fundamental core,  our emotions,  and through our artistic lens,  through our creativity, we're able to shape those emotions into reality.    	  これこそ私たちが音楽を作る理由です 私たちみんなの中にある とても基本的なもの 感情を取り出し 芸術のレンズを通し クリエイティビティを通して その感情を現実の形へと変えるのです  
 And the reality of that expression  reaches all of us  and moves us, inspires and unites us.    	  そしてその表現のリアリティが 私たちみんなに伝わり 感動させ 触発し 私たちを１つにするのです  
 And for Nathaniel,  music brought him back into a fold of friends.    	  ナサニエルにとっては 音楽は友達の元へと引き戻してくれるものでもあります  
 The redemptive power of music brought him back  into a family of musicians  that understood him,  that recognized his talents  and respected him.    	  音楽の救いの力が 彼を理解し 才能を認め 敬意を払ってくれる 音楽家仲間の元へと 彼を連れ戻したのです  
 And I will always make music with Nathaniel,  whether we're at Walt Disney Concert Hall  or on Skid Row, because he reminds me  why I became a musician.    	  私はいつだってナサニエルと一緒に音楽を奏でるでしょう そこがディズニー ホールだろうと スキッドロウだろうと 彼は私に なぜ自分が音楽家になったのかを思い出させてくれるからです  
 Thank you.    	  どうもありがとうございました  
   Bruno Giussani: Thank you. Thanks.    	   どうもありがとう どうも  
 Robert Gupta.    	  ロバート グプタでした  
   Robert Gupta: I'm going to play something that I shamelessly stole from cellists.    	   恥ずかしげもなくチェリスト達から盗んだ曲を弾かせていただきます  
 So, please forgive me.    	  どうぞご容赦ください  
 I'm Jane McGonigal. I'm a game designer.    	  私はジェーン マゴニガル ゲームデザイナーです  
 I've been making games online now for 10 years,  and my goal for the next decade  is to try to make it as easy to save the world in real life  as it is to save the world in online games.    	  オンラインゲームを作って10年になります 次の10年の 私の目標は 現実において世界を救うことを オンラインゲームの中で世界を救うのと  
 Now, I have a plan for this,  and it entails convincing more people,  including all of you, to spend more time playing bigger and better games.    	  同じくらい簡単にするということです そのためのプランはありますが それには より大きくより良いゲームでもっと遊ぶよう あなた方を含め 多くの人を 説得する必要があります  
 Right now we spend three billion hours a week playing online games.    	  現在私たちは オンラインゲームに 週30億時間  
 Some of you might be thinking,  "That's a lot of time to spend playing games.    	  費やしています 「そんなに多くの時間をゲームに費やしているのか」と  
 Maybe too much time,  considering how many urgent problems we have to solve in the real world."    	  思われる方もいるかもしれません 確かに多いと言えるでしょう 現実に解決すべき切迫した問題の多さを考えれば  
 But actually, according to my research at the Institute for the Future,  actually the opposite is true.    	  しかし私が行った インスティテュート フォー ザ フューチャーでの 研究によると 実際は逆なのです  
 Three billion hours a week is not nearly enough game play  In fact, I believe that if we want to survive the next century on this planet,  we need to increase that total dramatically.    	  世界の危急な問題の解決には 週30億時間のゲームプレイでは不十分なのです 私たちが次の100年を地球で生き長らえようと思うなら この量を劇的に増やす必要が  
 I've calculated the total we need  at 21 billion hours of game play every week.    	  あると考えています 私の計算では トータルで 週210億時間の ゲームプレイが必要なのです  
 So, that's probably a bit of a counter-intuitive idea,  so I'll say it again, let it sink in:  If we want to solve problems like hunger,  poverty, climate change, global conflict, obesity,  I believe that we need to aspire to play games online  for at least 21 billion hours a week, by the end of the next decade.    	  これはたぶん直感に反する考えだと思いますので ちゃんと頭に入るよう もう一度繰り返します 私たちが飢餓や 貧困や 気候変動や 国際紛争や 肥満といった 問題を解決しようと思うなら 2020年までに オンラインゲームを 少なくとも週に210億時間  
   No. I'm serious. I am.    	  するようになる必要があるのです  私は大まじめですよ  
 Here's why.    	  ご説明しましょう この写真は  
 This picture pretty much sums up why I think games are so essential  Truly. This is a portrait by photographer Phil Toledano.    	  未来における人類の存続のために ゲームが非常に重要だと私が考える理由を よく表しています  これはフィリップ トレダノという写真家による肖像写真で  
 He wanted to capture the emotion of gaming,  so he set up a camera in front of gamers while they were playing.    	  彼はゲームをしている人の感情を捉えようと カメラを プレイ中のゲーマーの前に据えたのです  
 And this is a classic gaming emotion.    	  この写真はゲームにおける典型的な感情を示しています  
 Now, if you're not a gamer,  you might miss some of the nuance in this photo.    	  ゲームをしない方には この写真の示すニュアンスがわからないかも  
 You probably see the sense of urgency,  a little bit of fear, but intense concentration,  deep, deep focus on tackling a really difficult problem.    	  ある差し迫った感覚 少しばかりの怖れ 極度の集中 深く深く没頭して 非常に困難な問題に取り組んでいる状態です  
 If you are a gamer, you will notice a few nuances here:  the crinkle of the eyes up, and around the mouth  is a sign of optimism,  and the eyebrows up is surprise.    	  ゲーマーの方なら ここに見られるニュアンスに気付くことでしょう 目尻の皺と口元には 楽観のきざしが見られます つり上がった眉は驚きを  
 This is a gamer who's on the verge of something called an "epic win."    	  これはエピックウィンと呼ばれるものの瀬戸際にいる ゲーマーの姿なのです  
   Oh, you've heard of that.    	   あ お聞きになったことあります？  
 OK, good, so we have some gamers among us.    	  ではこの場にもゲーマーがいるわけですね  
 An epic win is an outcome that is so extraordinarily positive,  you had no idea it was even possible until you achieved it.    	  エピックウィンというのは 際立って良い結果のことで 達成するときまで それが可能だとさえ思ってなかったようなことです  
 It was almost beyond the threshold of imagination, and when you get there,  you're shocked to discover what you're truly capable of.    	  ほとんど想像の範囲を超えていて それを達成したときには どれほどのことが自分にできるかということに 衝撃を覚えるほど  
 That's an epic win.    	  これはエピックウィン間際の姿なんです  
 This is a gamer on the verge of an epic win.    	  これからの百年に 困難な問題に取り組む上で  
 on millions of problem-solvers all over the world  the face of someone who, against all odds,  is on the verge of an epic win.    	  世界中の何百万という問題解決者が こういう表情をする必要があります 大きな困難を乗り越えてエピックウィンの達成を  
 Now, unfortunately this is more of the face that we see  in everyday life now as we try to tackle urgent problems.    	  目前にした人の表情です 残念ながら 日常で危急の問題に取り組むとき  
 This is what I call the "I'm Not Good At Life" face.    	  私たちが目にするのは こんな表情です  
 This is actually me making it.    	  「私の人生はうまくいかない」という顔です  
 Can you see? Yes. Good.    	  実際に私がしているところを撮りました 見えますか？  
 This is me making the "I'm Not Good At Life" face.    	  「私の人生はうまくいかない」という私の顔です  
 This is a piece of graffiti in my old neighborhood  in Berkeley, California, where I did my PhD  on why we're better in games than we are in real life.    	  以前住んでいたバークレーで 近所にあった落書きです なぜゲームでは実生活よりうまくいくのかを 私は研究していました  
 And this is a problem that a lot of gamers have.    	  多くのゲーマーが抱えている問題です  
 We feel that we are not as good in reality as we are in games.    	  私たちは現実においてはゲームの中のようにうまくいかないと感じています  
 I don't mean just good as in successful, although that's part of it.    	  成功という点だけではありません  
 We do achieve more in game worlds.    	  確かにゲームの世界では より多くのことを成し遂げられますが  
 But I also mean good as in motivated to do something that matters --  inspired to collaborate and to cooperate.    	  そればかりではなく 何か重要なことをするように動機付けられ 協力を促される点でも 優れています  
 And when we're in game worlds,  I believe that many of us become the best version of ourselves --  the most likely to help at a moment's notice,  the most likely to stick with a problem as long at it takes,  to get up after failure and try again.    	  ゲームの世界にいるときに 最高のバージョンの自分が現れるのです 即座に助けに駆けつけ 問題の解決に粘り強く取り組み 失敗しても立ち上がって再び立ち向かいます  
 And in real life, when we face failure,  when we confront obstacles, we often don't feel that way.    	  現実の人生では 失敗に直面したり 障害にぶつかったときに なかなかそのようには感じません  
 We feel overcome, we feel overwhelmed,  we feel anxious, maybe depressed, frustrated or cynical.    	  圧倒され 打ちひしがれたように感じます 不安になり あるいは落ち込み 苛立って 悲観的になります  
 We never have those feelings when we're playing games,  they just don't exist in games.    	  ゲームでは そのようには感じません そんなものゲームには存在しないのです  
 So that's what I wanted to study when I was a graduate student.    	  それが 私が大学院生だったときに  
 What about games makes it impossible  to feel that we can't achieve everything?    	  研究しようと思っていたことでした 「達成できないことなどない」 ゲームの何がそう思わせるのでしょう？  
 How can we take those feelings from games  and apply them to real-world work?    	  どうしたらその感覚をゲームから取り出して 現実の世界に適用できるのでしょう？  
 So I looked at games like World of Warcraft,  which is really the ideal collaborative problem-solving environment.    	  それでWorld of Warcraftに目を向けました これは本当に理想的な協同問題解決環境です  
 And I started to notice a few things  that make epic wins so possible in online worlds.    	  そしてオンラインの世界で エピックウィンを可能にしているいくつかの要因に気がつきました  
 The first thing is whenever you show up in one of these online games,  especially in World of Warcraft,  there are lots and lots of different characters  who are willing to trust you with a world-saving mission, right away. But not just any mission,  it's a mission that is perfectly matched with your current level in the game.    	  第一に これらのオンラインゲーム 特にWorld of Warcraftの世界に行くと 世界を救うミッションに向かう自分に信頼を寄せる 様々なキャラクターが すぐさま たくさん現れるということです ミッションもランダムなものではなく ゲームの中の自分の 現在のレベルに完璧にマッチしています  
 Right? So you can do it.    	  だから達成することができます  
 They never give you a challenge you can't achieve.    	  達成し得ない難問は与えられません  
 But it is on the verge of what you're capable of, so you have to try hard.    	  でもそれは自分にできる限界に近い挑戦で 一生懸命やる必要があります  
 But there's no unemployment in World of Warcraft; no sitting around,  wringing your hands --  there's always something specific and important to be done.    	  World of Warcraftの世界に失業はありません 悲観して何もしないでいる人もいません いつでも なすべき特別で重要なことがあります  
 There are also tons of collaborators.    	  そして協力者が山ほどいます  
 Everywhere you go, hundreds of thousands of people  ready to work with you to achieve your epic mission.    	  どこへ行っても 何十万という人が 自分の壮大なミッションの達成に 力を貸そうと待ち構えています  
 That's not something we have in real life that easily,  this sense that at our fingertips are tons of collaborators.    	  現実生活では容易に手にできないものです すぐ手の届くところに協力者が  
 And there's this epic story, this inspiring story of why we're there,  and what we're doing,  and we get all this positive feedback.    	  山ほどいるなんていうのは そしてまた壮大なストーリーがあります 自分の存在と行動に意味を与える物語です ポジティブなフィードバックもたくさんあります  
 You guys have heard of leveling up, +1 strength, +1 intelligence.    	  耳にしたことがあるでしょう レベルアップとか 力+1 知性+1といったものを  
 We don't get that kind of constant feedback in real life.    	  現実生活には あまりないものです  
 When I get off this stage,  I'm not going to have +1 speaking, and +1 crazy idea,  +20 crazy idea.    	  私がこの講演を終えても 何かもらえるわけではありません 話術+1とか クレージーなアイデア+1とか クレージーなアイデア+20 とかね  
 I don't get that feedback in real life.    	  そんなフィードバックは現実にはないのです  
 Now, the problem with collaborative online environments like World of Warcraft  is that it's so satisfying to be on the verge of an epic win all the time,  we decide to spend all our time in these game worlds.    	  このような協力的オンライン環境の持つ問題は いつもエピックウィンの間際にいる 満足感があまりに強いため 全ての時間を ゲームの世界で 費やすようになることです  
 It's just better than reality.    	  そこは現実よりも良い世界なのです  
 So, so far, collectively all the World of Warcraft gamers  have spent 5.93 million years  solving the virtual problems of Azeroth.    	  だからこそWorld of Warcraftのプレーヤーたちは 合計すると593万年分にもなる時間を アゼロスの仮想的な問題の解決に費やしているのです  
 Now, that's not necessarily a bad thing.    	  これは必ずしも悪いことではありません  
 It might sound like it's a bad thing.    	  まずいことに見えるかもしれませんけど  
 But to put that in context:  5.93 million years ago  was when our earliest primate human ancestors stood up.    	  コンテキストの中に置いてみましょう 593万年前といえば 人類の祖先が直立二足歩行をするようになった頃です  
 That was the first upright primate.    	  最初に直立した霊長類です  
 So when we talk about how much time we're currently investing in playing games,  the only way it makes sense to even think about it  is to talk about time at the magnitude of human evolution,  which is an extraordinary thing.    	  だから私たちが現在ゲームにどれくらい時間を使っているかを 意味のある形で考えようと思ったら 人類の進化というスケールの時間で 捉える必要があるのです これはものすごいことですが  
 But it's also apt,  because it turns out that by spending all this time playing games,  we're actually changing what we are capable of as human beings.    	  適切なことでもあります ゲームをして過ごす時間によって 私たちは人類として可能なことを 実際に変えてきたからです  
 We're evolving to be a more collaborative and hearty species.    	  そうやって私たちは 協力的で心暖かい種へと進化してきたのです  
 This is true. I believe this.    	  本当です 私はそう信じています  
 So, consider this really interesting statistic;  it was recently published by a researcher at Carnegie Mellon University:  The average young person today in a country with a strong gamer culture  will have spent 10,000 hours playing online games  by the age of 21.    	  考えて欲しい興味深いデータがあります 最近カーネギーメロン大の研究者が公表したものですが 今日 ゲーム文化が強い国では 平均的な若者は21歳までに オンラインゲームで1万時間を 費やすということです  
 Now 10,000 hours is a really interesting number for two reasons.    	  1万時間というのが興味深い 理由が2つあります  
 First of all, for children in the United States,  10,080 hours is the exact amount of time you will spend in school,  from fifth grade to high school graduation,  if you have perfect attendance.    	  第一に アメリカの子供にとって 10,080時間というのは 小学5年から高校卒業まで 無欠席の場合に 学校で過ごす時間です だから まったく並行した2つの  
 So, we have an entire parallel track of education going on,  where young people are learning as much about what it takes to be a good gamer  as they're learning about everything else in school.    	  教育過程があることになります 優れたゲーマーに必要なことを学ぶために その他全てのことを学校で学ぶのと 同じだけの時間を費やすのです  
 Some of you have probably read Malcolm Gladwell's new book "Outliers,"  so you would have heard of his theory of success,  the "10,000 hours" theory of success.    	  グラッドウェルの「天才! 成功する人々の法則」を 読まれた人もいるでしょう 彼の「成功の1万時間の理論」を お聞きになっているでしょう  
 It's based on this great cognitive-science research  that says if we can master 10,000 hours  of effortful study at anything by the age of 21,  we will be virtuosos at it.    	  これは認知科学研究に基づいていて どんなことであれ ひたむきに勉強を1万時間するなら それに関して名人になります 21までに その道の達人になれます 世界で最高の人達に肩を並べるくらい  
 We will be as good at whatever we do  as the greatest people in the world.    	  優れたものになれるのです そうであれば 私たちの目の前には  
 And so, now what we're looking at  is an entire generation of young people who are virtuoso gamers.    	  ゲームに関して名人級の若い人々が まるまる一世代分いることになります  
 So, the big question is,  "What exactly are gamers getting so good at?"    	  ここで大きな疑問は 「ゲーマーが上達させるのは正確にどういう面なのか？」ということです  
 Because if we could figure that out,  we would have a virtually unprecedented human resource on our hands.    	  もしそれがわかれば 私たちは空前の人的リソースを 手にすることになります  
 This is how many people we now have in the world  who spend at least an hour a day playing online games.    	  この図は現在世界でオンラインゲームに 一日一時間以上費やす人の数を示しています  
 These are our virtuoso gamers,  500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something.    	  彼らはゲームの達人なのです とあることに傑出した人が5億人もいるのです  
 And in the next decade,  we're going to have another billion gamers  who are extraordinarily good at whatever that is.    	  そして次の10年で さらに 10億のゲーマーを手にすることになります それが何であるにせよ ある面で際立って優れた人々です  
 If you don't know it already, this is coming.    	  ご存じないかもしれませんが  
 The game industry is developing consoles  that are low-energy and that work with the wireless phone networks  instead of broadband Internet,  so that gamers all over the world,  particularly in India, China, Brazil, can get online.    	  ゲーム業界では小さなエネルギーで動き ブロードバンドの代わりにワイヤレス携帯ネットワークで使える ゲーム機を開発しています それによって世界中のゲーマー 特にインド 中国 ブラジルの人々をオンラインに引き込むためです  
 They expect one billion more gamers in the next decade.    	  次の10年でゲーマーが10億人増えるのです  
 It will bring us up to 1.5 billion gamers. So I've started to think about  what these games are making us virtuosos at.    	  それにより私たちの元には15億人のゲーマーがいることになります だから ゲームは人をどういう点で  
 Here are the four things I came up with.    	  達人にするのかと 考え始めました  
 The first is urgent optimism.    	  4つ考え付きました 最初のは「楽観的即行」です  
 OK, think of this as extreme self-motivation.    	  強度の自己動機付けと考えてください  
 Urgent optimism is the desire to act immediately  to tackle an obstacle,  combined with the belief that we have a reasonable hope of success.    	  楽観的即行は 問題にすぐ取り組みたいという欲求と 成功の見込みは十分にあるという 信念が結び付いたものです  
 Gamers always believe that an epic win is possible,  and that it's always worth trying, and trying now.    	  ゲーマーはいつもエピックウィンは可能と思い いつだって すぐにチャレンジする価値があると信じています  
 Gamers don't sit around.    	  彼らが何もせずにいることはありません  
 Gamers are virtuosos at weaving a tight social fabric.    	  ゲーマーは緊密な「縦横のネットワーク」を作り上げる達人です  
 There's a lot of interesting research that shows  we like people better after we play a game with them,  even if they've beaten us badly.    	  ゲームを一緒にした後は その相手のことを より好きになるという興味深い研究があります たとえひどく負かされた場合でもそうなのです  
 And the reason is, it takes a lot of trust to play a game with someone.    	  その理由は ゲームを一緒にするには 多くの信頼が必要だからです  
 We trust that they will spend their time with us,  that they will play by the same rules,  value the same goal, stay with the game until it's over.    	  相手が自分といっしょに時間を過ごすことを 同じルールに従ってプレイすることを 同じ目標に価値を認め 終わりまで続けることを信じています  
 And so, playing a game together  actually builds up bonds and trust and cooperation.    	  一緒にゲームすることは 絆と信頼と協力を生み出します  
 And we actually build stronger social relationships as a result.    	  結果として より強い社会的な関係が築かれるのです  
 Blissful productivity. I love it.    	  「生産的至福状態」 好きなやつです  
 You know, there's a reason why the average World of Warcraft gamer  plays for 22 hours a week -- kind of a half-time job.    	  平均的なWorld of Warcraftゲーマーが 半日労働に相当する週22時間を  
 It's because we know, when we're playing a game,  that we're actually happier working hard  than we are relaxing, or hanging out.    	  ゲームに費やすのには理由があります 私たちがゲームをしているときには リラックスしたり ぶらぶらしている時より 楽しい気分で 熱心に働きます  
 We know that we are optimized as human beings,  to do hard and meaningful work.    	  人類は 難しく意味深い仕事をするよう 最適化されているのです  
 And gamers are willing to work hard all the time,  if they're given the right work.    	  適切な問題さえ与えられれば ゲーマーは常に熱心に働く人々なのです  
 Finally: epic meaning.    	  最後に「壮大な意義」です  
 Gamers love to be attached to awe-inspiring missions to human planetary-scale stories.    	  ゲーマーは人類とか地球というスケールの物語における  
 So, just one bit of trivia that helps put that into perspective:  So, you all know Wikipedia, biggest wiki in the world.    	  畏敬の念を起こさせるようなミッションに打ち込むのが好きです この意味合いがわかるように 1つトリビアをお教えしましょう 世界最大のWikiであるWikipediaはご存じですね  
 Second biggest wiki in the world, with nearly 80,000 articles,  is the World of Warcraft wiki.    	  では世界で2番目に大きなWikiは何でしょう？ 8万にも及ぶ項目がある World of Warcraft のWikiです  
 Five million people use it every month.    	  月に500万もの人々が訪れます  
 They have compiled more information about World of Warcraft on the Internet  than any other topic covered on any other wiki in the world.    	  彼らがネット上にまとめ上げている情報は Wikiで記述された他のどんな  
 They are building an epic story.    	  トピックの情報よりも多いのです  
 They are building an epic knowledge resource  about the World of Warcraft.    	  彼らは壮大な物語を築いています World of Warcraftについての  
 Okay, so these are four superpowers that add up to one thing:  Gamers are super-empowered hopeful individuals.    	  壮大な知識リソースを構築しているのです これら4つのスーパーパワーが 1つの存在に集約されています ゲーマーというのは強い力を与えられた 希望に満ちた個人なのです  
 These are people who believe that they are individually capable  of changing the world.    	  1人ひとりが世界を変えられると 信じている人たちです  
 And the only problem is,  they believe that they are capable of changing virtual worlds  and not the real world.    	  唯一の問題は 彼らが変えられるのは 仮想世界であって現実世界ではないと 思っていることです  
 That's the problem that I'm trying to solve.    	  これは私が解こうと試みている問題です  
 There's an economist named Edward Castronova. His work is brilliant.    	  エドワード カストロノヴアという経済学者がいます  
 He looks at why people are investing so much time and energy  and money in online worlds.    	  人々がなぜそれほど多くの エネルギーと 時間と お金を オンラインの世界に  
 And he says,  "We're witnessing what amounts to no less than a mass exodus  to virtual worlds and online game environments."    	  投じているのかに 目を向けています 「我々が目の当たりにしているのは 仮想世界とオンラインゲーム環境への  
 And he's an economist, so he's rational.    	  大移動であると言って差し支えない」と彼は言っています  
 And he says --    Not like me, I'm a game designer; I'm exuberant.    	  そして彼は経済学者で 理性的です その彼が……ええ 私と違って 私は脳天気なゲームデザイナです  
 But he says that this makes perfect sense,  because gamers can achieve more in online worlds  than they can in real life.    	  ゲーマーたちは現実の生活よりも オンラインの世界での方が多くのことを成し遂げられるのだから これは全く理にかなったことなのだと彼は言います  
 They can have stronger social relationships in games  than they can have in real life;  they get better feedback and feel more rewarded in games  than they do in real life.    	  ゲームの中では 現実生活よりも 強い人間関係を築けます より良いフィードバックが得られます ゲームの中の方が 現実よりも報われるように感じます  
 So he says, for now it makes perfect sense  for gamers to spend more time in virtual worlds than the real world.    	  今やゲーマーたちが現実より 仮想世界で多くの時間を費やすのは 理にかなっているのです  
 Now, I also agree that that is rational, for now.    	  今やそれが合理的だということに 私も同意します  
 But it is not, by any means, an optimal situation.    	  しかしこれはどう考えても 最適な状況とは言えません  
 We have to start making the real world work more like a game.    	  私たちは現実の世界をもっとゲームのようにする必要があるのです  
 I take my inspiration from something that happened  2,500 years ago.    	  私は2,500年前に起こったある出来事から インスピレーションを得ました  
 These are ancient dice, made out of sheep's knuckles.    	  これは古代のダイスで ヒツジの足の関節から作られました  
 Before we had awesome game controllers,  we had sheep's knuckles.    	  かっこいいゲームコントローラーができる前は ヒツジの骨を使っていたんです そしてこれは人類がデザインした  
 And these represent the first game equipment  and if you're familiar with the work of the ancient Greek historian Herodotus,  you might know this history,  which is the history of who invented games and why.    	  最初のゲームの道具です ヘロドトスの本に馴染みのある方は この話をご存じかもしれません 誰が何のためにゲームを  
 Herodotus says that games, particularly dice games,  were invented in the kingdom of Lydia,  during a time of famine.    	  発明したのかという話です ダイスゲームはリディア王国で 飢饉の時期に発明されたと  
 Apparently, there was such a severe famine  that the king of Lydia decided they had to do something crazy.    	  ヘロドトスは 書いています 非常に深刻な飢饉があり リディア王は何か度を外れたことをする必要があると考えました  
 People were suffering. People were fighting.    	  人々は苦しみ 争っています  
 It was an extreme situation, they needed an extreme solution.    	  極限状況です 極端な解決策が求められていました  
 So, according to Herodotus, they invented dice games,  and they set up a kingdom-wide policy:  On one day, everybody would eat,  and on the next day, everybody would play games.    	  それで ヘロドトスによると 彼らはダイスゲームを発明し 王国全土で ある政策を実施しました 一日目には皆食事をする その翌日には皆ゲームをする  
 And they would be so immersed in playing the dice games,  because games are so engaging,  and immerse us in such satisfying, blissful productivity,  they would ignore the fact that they had no food to eat.    	  皆すっかりダイスゲームにはまりました あまりに引き込まれるものだったので 満足を与えてくれる生産的な至福の中で 食べるものがないということさえ忘れてしまったのです  
 And then on the next day, they would play games;  and on the next day, they would eat.    	  次の日にはゲームをし その次の日には食べる  
 And according to Herodotus,  they passed 18 years this way,  surviving through a famine,  by eating on one day, and playing games on the next.    	  ヘロドトスによれば 彼らはそのようにして18年間 飢饉の中を生き抜いたということです 1日は食べ 1日はゲームをするという具合にして  
 Now, this is exactly, I think, how we're using games today.    	  これはまさに今日私たちが  
 We're using games to escape real-world suffering --  we're using games to get away  from everything that's broken in the real environment,  everything that's not satisfying about real life,  and we're getting what we need from games.    	  ゲームをするあり方と同じです 私たちは現実の苦難を忘れるためにゲームを使っています ゲームを使って 世の中のおかしなことや 現実の生活の不満なものすべてから逃れ 求めるものをゲームから得ているのです  
 But it doesn't have to end there.    	  しかし話はそれで終わりません  
 This is really exciting.    	  すごく面白いのですが  
 According to Herodotus, after 18 years the famine wasn't getting better,  so the king decided they would play one final dice game.    	  ヘロドトスによれば 18年の飢饉の後も 事態は良くなりませんでした それで王は最後のダイスゲームをすることに決めました  
 They divided the entire kingdom in half.    	  王国全体を2つに分け  
 They played one dice game,  and the winners of that game got to go on an epic adventure.    	  ダイスゲームで勝負をし そのゲームの勝者は 壮大な冒険を賞品として手に入れます  
 They would leave Lydia,  and they would go out in search of a new place to live,  leaving behind just enough people  to survive on the resources that were available,  and hopefully to take their civilization somewhere else where they could thrive.    	  リディアを出て 新しい生きる場所を探しに行くのです 後にはわずかな食料で 食べていけるだけの人が残されます そうやって文明をどこか別な場所で 生き長らえさせようとしたのです  
 Now, this sounds crazy, right?    	  クレージーな話だとお思いになるでしょう  
 But recently, DNA evidence has shown that the Etruscans,  who then led to the Roman Empire,  actually share the same DNA as the ancient Lydians.    	  でも最近 古代リディア人が ローマ帝国の礎を築いた エトルリア人と 同じDNAを持つことが  
 And so, recently, scientists have suggested  that Herodotus' crazy story is actually true.    	  明らかになったのです ヘロドトスのクレージーな物語が真実であることを  
 And geologists have found evidence of a global cooling  that lasted for nearly 20 years, that could have explained the famine.    	  科学者達が示したのです それに飢饉の原因になった 20年にわたる地球寒冷化の証拠も 地質学者により発見されました  
 So this crazy story might be true.    	  このクレージーな話は本当だったのかも  
 They might have actually saved their culture by playing games,  escaping to games for 18 years,  and then been so inspired,  and knew so much about how to come together with games,  that they actually saved the entire civilization that way.    	  彼らはゲームをして 実際に文明を救ったのかもしれません 18年間ゲームの中に逃れ それにより刺激を与えられ ゲームから力を合わせることをも学び そうやって文明全体を実際に救ったのです  
 Okay, we can do that.    	  私たちにだって同じことができます  
 We've been playing Warcraft since 1994.    	  私たちはWarcraftを1994年以来やっています  
 That was the first real-time strategy game from the World of Warcraft series.    	  World of Warcraftシリーズの 最初のリアルタイム戦略ゲームです  
 That was 16 years ago. They played dice games for 18 years,  we've been playing Warcraft for 16 years.    	  彼らは18年間ダイスゲームをしましたが 私たちも16年間Warcraftをやっているのです  
 I say we are ready for our own epic game.    	  私たち自身 壮大なゲームをする準備ができていると思います  
 Now, they had half the civilization go off in search of a new world,  so that's where I get my 21 billion hours a week of game-play from.    	  彼らは文明の半分を 新世界の探索に送り出しました 週210億時間のゲームというのは ここから来ています  
 Let's get half of us to agree  to spend an hour a day playing games,  until we solve real-world problems.    	  現実の世界の問題が解決するまで 私たちの半分が一日一時間を ゲームに費やすことにするのです  
 Now, I know you're asking,  "How are we going to solve real-world problems in games?"    	  「どうやって現実の世界の問題を ゲームで解決するんだ？」と思われるでしょう  
 Well, that's what I've devoted my work to over the past few years,  at the Institute for the Future.    	  それこそ 私がこの数年来 インスティテュート フォー ザ フューチャーで 取り組んできたことです  
 We have this banner in our offices in Palo Alto,  and it expresses our view of how we should try to relate to the future.    	  パロアルトにある私たちのオフィスには このような横断幕があり 私たちの未来との関わり方を訴えています  
 We do not want to try to predict the future.    	  私たちは未来を予測したいのではなく  
 What we want to do is make the future.    	  未来を生み出したいのです  
 We want to imagine the best-case scenario outcome,  and then we want to empower people to make that outcome a reality.    	  最良のシナリオを思い描き それが現実になるよう 人々を力づけるのです  
 We want to imagine epic wins,  and then give people the means to achieve the epic win.    	  私たちはエピックウィンを想像し 人々にそのエピックウィンを達成する手立てを与えたい  
 I'm just going to very briefly show you three games that I've made  that are an attempt to give people the means to create epic wins  in their own futures.    	  人々が自分の未来に エピックウィンを生み出す手段を与える試みとして作った 3つのゲームをご紹介します  
 This is World Without Oil.    	  これはWorld Without Oil です  
 We made this game in 2007.    	  2007年に作りました  
 in which you try to survive an oil shortage.    	  石油不足を生き抜く オンラインゲームです  
 The oil shortage is fictional,  but we put enough online content out there for you to believe that it's real,  and to live your real life as if we've run out of oil.    	  石油不足は架空のものですが それが本当だと信じられるだけ たくさんのオンラインコンテンツを 提供しています そして石油がなくなったかのように  
 So when you come to the game,  you sign up, tell us where you live,  and then we give you real-time news videos,  data feeds that show you exactly how much oil costs,  what's not available, how food supply is being affected,  how transportation is being affected,  if schools are closed, if there's rioting,  and you have to figure out how you would live your real life  as if this were true. And then we ask you to blog about it,    	  現実に生活をするのです このゲームではまず どこに住んでいるかを登録します それからリアルタイムのニュースビデオで 様々なことを伝えられます 石油の値段がいくらかとか 何が手に入らなくなったとか 食糧や輸送機関にどう影響が出たとか 学校が閉鎖されたとか 暴動が起きたとか プレーヤーはそれが本当であるかのように 生き方を 考え出す必要があり そのことをブログに書いたり  
 to post videos, to post photos.    	  ビデオや写真で投稿します  
 We piloted this game with 1,700 players in 2007,  and we've tracked them for the three years since.    	  2007年に1,700人のプレーヤーを相手に試行し 3年間彼らを追跡しました  
 And I can tell you that this is a transformative experience.    	  これは変化を起こす体験であると言うことができます  
 Nobody wants to change how they live,  just because it's good for the world, or because we're supposed to.    	  世の中のために良いから そうすることになっているから といった理由で生活を変えたいと思う人はいません  
 But if you immerse them in an epic adventure  and tell them, "We've run out of oil.    	  しかし壮大な冒険に浸っていると 「石油がなくなった」ということが  
 This is an amazing story and adventure for you to go on.    	  ものすごい冒険の物語に変わるのです  
 Challenge yourself to see how you would survive,"  most of our players have kept up the habits  that they learned in this game.    	  どう生き残れるか自分で挑戦するのです 多くのプレーヤーたちが ゲームから学んだ習慣をずっと維持しています  
 So for the next world-saving game,  we decided to aim higher -- bigger problem than just peak oil.    	  次の世界を救うゲームでは 石油危機よりももっと高度で大きな問題に狙いを定めました  
 We did a game called Superstruct at the Institute for the Future.    	  インスティテュート フォー ザ フューチャーの  
 And the premise was, a supercomputer has calculated  that humans have only 23 years left on the planet.    	  Superstructというゲームです 地球上の人類にはあと23年しか残されていないと スーパーコンピュータが算出したという設定です  
 This supercomputer was called  the Global Extinction Awareness System, of course.    	  そのスーパーコンピュータの名は 「地球危機認識システム」  
 We asked people to come online --  almost like a Jerry Bruckheimer movie.    	  ちょうどブラッカイマーの映画みたいに 私たちは 人々を募りました  
 You know Jerry Bruckheimer movies, you form a dream team --  you've got the astronaut, the scientist, the ex-convict,  and they all have something to do to save the world.    	  ジェリー ブラッカイマーの映画はご存じでしょう 宇宙飛行士や科学者や元犯罪者が ドリームチームを結成し 世界を救う役割を担うというやつです  
   But in our game, instead of just having five people on the dream team,  we said, "Everybody's on the dream team,  and it's your job to invent the future of energy,  the future of food, the future of health,  the future of security and the future of the social safety net."    	   私たちの場合ドリームチームは5人だけではなく 全員がドリームチームであり 未来のエネルギー 未来の食料 未来の医療 未来の治安 未来のセーフティネットを考え出します  
 We had 8,000 people play that game for eight weeks.    	  8,000人が8週間に渡り このゲームをし  
 They came up with 500 insanely creative solutions  that you can go online, Google "Superstruct," and see.    	  とてもクリエイティブな解決策を500通りも考え出しました “Superstruct”で検索してみてください  
 So, finally, the last game,  we're launching it March 3rd. This is a game done with the World Bank Institute.    	  最後は 最新のゲームEvokeで 3月3日にローンチします 世界銀行研究所と一緒に作りました  
 If you complete the game, you will be certified by the World Bank Institute  as a Social Innovator, class of 2010.    	  このゲームを完了すると 世界銀行研究所から ソーシャル イノベーター 2010の 認定がもらえます  
 Working with universities all over sub-Saharan Africa,  and we are inviting them to learn social innovation skills.    	  サハラ以南アフリカの多くの大学と連携し ソーシャルイノベーションのスキルを学ぶように招いています  
 in skills like local insight, knowledge networking,  sustainability, vision and resourcefulness.    	  コミックも用意しています 現場での洞察、 知識ネットワーク、サステナビリティ、ビジョン、機知といった  
 I would like to invite all of you  to please share this game with young people,  anywhere in the world, particularly in developing areas, who might benefit from coming together  to try to start to imagine their own social enterprises to save the world.    	  スキルをレベルアップしていきます みなさんにこのゲームを 世界中の若い人達に とくに発展途上地域の人々に広めてほしいのです 世界を救う自分の社会事業に  
 So, I'm going to wrap up now.    	  このゲームで取り組むことによって 多くのことを学べるはずです  
 I want to ask a question.    	  まとめに入りましょう 問いたいことが1つがあります  
 What do you think happens next?    	  次に起きることは 一体何でしょう？  
 We've got all these amazing gamers, we've got these games  that are kind of pilots of what we might do,  but none of them have saved the real world yet.    	  たくさんのものすごいゲーマー達がいて 未来を試行するようなゲームがありますが どれもまだ現実の世界を救ってはいません  
 Well I hope you will agree with me that gamers are a human resource  that we can use to do real-world work,  that games are a powerful platform for change.    	  ゲーマー達は現実の仕事に使える 人的リソースであり ゲームは変化のための強力なプラットフォームだということは 同意していただけると思います  
 We have all these amazing superpowers:  blissful productivity, the ability to weave a tight social fabric,  this feeling of urgent optimism and the desire for epic meaning.    	  この驚くべきスーパーパワーがあるのです 生産的至福状態 縦横のネットワークを築く能力 楽観的即行 壮大な意義への希求  
 I really hope that we can come together to play games that matter,  to survive on this planet for another century.    	  みんな集まって意義のあるゲームをし これからの100年を地球で生き抜けるよう願っています  
 That's my hope, that you will join me in making and playing games like this.    	  このようなゲームを作り 遊ぶことへ みなさんに参加していただくのが私の望みです  
 When I look forward to the next decade, I know two things for sure:  that we can make any future we can imagine,  and we can play any games we want, so I say:  Let the world-changing games begin.    	  次の10年を見つめたとき 2つのことが確かにわかります 私たちは想像できるどんな未来でも作ることができ やりたいどんなゲームだってできるということです 世界を変えるゲームを始めましょう  
 Thank you.    	  どうもありがとうございました  
 For some time I have been interested in the placebo effect,  which might seem like an odd thing  for a magician to be interested in,  unless you think of it in the terms that I do,  which is, "Something fake  is believed in enough by somebody  that it becomes something real."    	  私は偽薬の心理的効果について 興味を持ってきました 偽物だと思われているものが なぜか本物になるという共通点を 考慮しなければ マジシャンである私が こんな事に興味を抱くのは おかしいと思われるかもしれません  
 In other words, sugar pills  have a measurable effect in certain kinds of studies,  the placebo effect,  just because the person thinks  that what's happening to them is a pharmaceutical  or some sort of a --  for pain management, for example,  if they believe it enough there is a measurable effect in the body  called the placebo effect.    	  これはいわゆる 砂糖の錠剤が ある研究ではかなりの効果を上げるという プラシーボ効果の事です 理由は単に当人が 薬か何かが効いていると 信じ込むからです 鎮痛効果を例にとると 患者が十分効果があると信じている時 プラシーボ効果とよばれる成果が体内で現れます  
 Something fake becomes  something real  because of someone's perception of it.    	  その人の認識が 偽物を 本物にしてしまうのです  
 In order for us to understand each other,  I want to start by showing you a rudimentary, very simple magic trick.    	  ここで理解を深めるため 基礎的でとても簡単なマジックを  
 And I'm going to show you how it works. This is a trick  that's been in every children's magic book since at least the 1950s.    	  お見せしたいと思います これは1950年代から あらゆる子供のマジック本に載っているトリックです  
 I learned it myself from Cub Scout Magic in the 1970s.    	  私自身これを1970年代にボーイスカウトで学びました  
 I'll do it for you, and then I'll explain it.    	  まずお見せして その後種明かしをしましょう  
 And then I'll explain why I explained it.    	  そしてなぜ種明かしをしたのか説明します  
 So, here's what happens.    	  では見て下さい　何が起こるでしょう  
 The knife, which you can examine; my hand, which you could examine.    	  ナイフと私の手　調べて頂いても結構ですよ  
 I'm just going to hold the knife in my fist like this.    	  私は単純にナイフをこの様に握りますから  
 I'll get my sleeve back.    	  袖から何か出てきたり 入ったりしないように  
 And to make sure nothing goes up or down my sleeve  I'm just going to squeeze my wrist right here.    	  袖をまくりましょうか ここで手首を握ります  
 That way you can see that at no time  can anything travel, as long as I'm squeezing there  nothing can go up or down my sleeve.    	  御覧のように何かが行き来することは 絶対ありません 袖からは何も行き来できません  
 And the object of this is quite simple.    	  種はとても単純です  
 I'm going to open my hand,  and hopefully, if all is well,  my pure animal magnetism will hold the knife.    	  手を開きます すると 成功していれば体から発する 天然磁気がナイフを固定するはずです  
 In fact it's held so tightly in place  that I can shake it,  and the knife does not come off.    	  実際とてもしっかりと 固定されていてこの様に ゆすっても離れませんね  
 Nothing goes up or down my sleeve,  no trickery. And you can examine everything.    	  袖もとからは何も出ていません トリックはなしです 全て調べていただいても大丈夫です  
 Ta-da!    	  ジャーン!  
   So, this is a trick that I often teach to young children  that are interested in magic, because you can learn  a great deal about deception by studying  this very -- even though it's a very simple trick methodologically.    	  （拍手） これが私がマジックに興味のある 小さな子供達によく教えるトリックです なぜなら 方法はとても単純ですが 騙しの大きな効果を学ぶことができるからです  
 Probably many of you in the room know this trick.    	  多分会場の多くの皆さんがこのトリックをご存じでしょう  
 What happens is this.    	  種はこうです  
 I hold the knife in my hand.    	  手にナイフを握ります  
 I say I'm going to grab hold of my wrist  to make sure nothing goes up or down my sleeve,  that is a lie.    	  ここで袖から何かいかさまが 出来ないよう 手首を握るといいましたね これが嘘だったのです  
 The reason I'm holding onto my wrist  is because that's actually the secret  of the illusion.    	  手首を握っている事が 実はこのマジックの 種なのです  
 In a moment when my hand moves from facing you  to being away from you,  this finger right here, my index finger is just going to shift  from where it is, to a position  pointing out like this.    	  私の手が皆さんの方から 反対向きに変わる瞬間 ここの人差し指がこの場所から この様に指さすような形に なる位置へと移動します  
 Nice one.    	  なかなかいいでしょ  
 Someone who didn't have a childhood is out there.    	  子ども時代にマジックで遊ばなかったようですね  
   So, it goes like this, from here, right.    	   では腕をこの様に握って  
 And as I move around my finger shifts.    	  向きを反転させながら指を動かしてみましょう  
 And we could talk about why this is deceptive,  why you don't notice there are only three fingers down here,  because the mind, and the way it processes information,  it doesn't count, one, two, three. It groups them.    	  なぜ下からのぞく指は３本だと気付かず だまされたのか考えてみましょう 理由は頭の中では指を１本２本３本と 数えずに グループとして捉えているからです  
 But that's not really what this is about. Right? And then I open my hand up.    	  でもそれだけじゃありませんね？次に手を開きます  
 Obviously it's clinging there, not by animal magnetism,  but by chicanery,  my index finger being there.    	  無論ナイフは磁気で張り付いているのではなく インチキな人差し指が 裏側から抑えています  
 And then when I close my finger, same thing,  as I move back, this motion  kind of covers the moving back of my finger.    	  次に指を閉じるときも同じです 元の向きに戻る際 人差し指を 戻すところを見えないようにします  
 I take this hand away. You give the knife out.    	  そして手を離します　次にナイフをとります  
 There is a trick you can do for your friends and neighbors. Thanks.    	  これで友達や隣人の前でマジックができますね　ありがとう  
 Now,   what does that have to do with the placebo effect?    	  さて これがプラシーボ効果と何の関係があるのでしょう？  
 I read a study a year or so ago  that really blew my mind wide open.    	  一年前くらいに読んだ研究報告が 本当に私の中に新風を吹き込んでくれました  
 I'm not a doctor or a researcher, so this, to me,  was an astonishing thing.    	  私は医者でも研究者でもありませんから これには本当に驚きました  
 It turns out that if you administer  a placebo in the form of a white pill,  that's like aspirin shaped --  it's just a round white pill -- it has some certain measurable effect.    	  アスピリンのような形の白い錠剤の 偽薬を投薬してみると 実際には それはただの白くて丸い錠剤なんですが 目に見える効果を上げることが明らかになっています  
 But if you change the form that you give the placebo in,  like you make a smaller pill,  and color it blue, and stamp a letter into it,  it is actually measurably more effective.    	  しかしもし偽薬の形を変えてみると 例えば小さくしてみて 青色にして 小さなスタンプを押すと 実際　より大きな効果をあげているのです  
 Even though neither one of these things  has any pharmaceutical -- they're sugar pills.    	  もちろんその二つともただの砂糖の錠剤であり 薬学的成分は何も含んでいないんですよ  
 But a white pill is not as good as a blue pill.    	  しかし白い錠剤は青い錠剤ほど効果をあげません  
 What?  That really flipped me out.    	  なんですって？本当に驚きました  
 Turns out though, that that's not even where it stops.    	  でもまだ終わりじゃないんです  
 If you have capsules,  they're more effective than tablets in any form.    	  もしカプセルを投与すれば どんな錠剤よりも効果的だそうです  
 A colored capsule, that's yellow on one end and red on the other  is better than a white capsule.    	  色つきのカプセル 片方が黄色でもう片方が赤色 これは白いカプセルよりも効果的なのです  
 Dosage has something to do with this.    	  服用量も影響しているみたいです  
 One pill twice a day  is not as good at three pills --  I don't remember the statistic now. Sorry.    	  １日に２錠では １日に３錠程の効果はない... 失礼　統計をあまり覚えていません  
 But the point is ...    	  しかし重要なのは...  
  ... these dosages have something to do with it.    	  ...服用量も影響を与えるということです  
 And the form has something to do with it.    	  そしてその形も何か影響を与えるようです  
 And if you want the ultimate in placebo,  you've go to the needle.    	  もし最高の効果を望むなら 針が一番です  
 Right? A syringe with some inert --  a couple CCs of some inert something,  and you inject this into a patient ...    	  注射器になんでもいいので なんの作用もない液体数CCを入れて 患者に打ちます...患者の頭の中では  
 Well this is such a powerful image in their mind,  it's so much stronger than the white pill.    	  点滴はとても効果があると認識されているので 白い錠剤に比べると絶大な効果を生み出します  
 It's a really, this graph, well I'll show it to you  some other time when we have slides.    	  グラフをみせましょう 今度スライドがある時に  
 The point is  the white pill is not as good as the blue pill  is not as good as the capsule is not as good as the needle.    	  ポイントは白い錠剤よりも 青い錠剤 錠剤よりもカプセル なにより注射器の方が効き目があるという事です  
 And none of it has any real pharmaceutical quality,  it's only your belief that makes it real  in your body and makes a stronger effect.    	  そしてどれも実際 薬剤などは含んでいません 患者の認知のみが偽物を本物に変えて 効果を作り出しているのです  
 I wanted to see if I could take that idea  and apply it to a magic trick.    	  私はこれを応用してマジックに 生かせないかと考えました  
 And take something that is obviously a fake trick  and make it seem real.    	  そこで明らかに偽のトリックを 本物にしてみましょう  
 And we know from that study  that when you want reality, you go to the needle.    	  この研究からリアル感を追求する時 針に行きつくということが分かりました  
 This is a seven-inch hatpin. It's very, very sharp,  and I'm going to just sterilize it a tiny bit.    	  この針は18cmあります　とてもとても鋭いですよ これをまず少し殺菌しましょう  
 This is really my flesh. This is not  Damian's special-grown flesh.    	  これは本当に私の手です 偽物じゃありませんよ  
 That's my skin right there. This is not a Hollywood special effect.    	  これは私の体で ハリウッドの特殊効果でもありません  
 I'm going to pierce my skin  and run this needle through to the other side.    	  腕を指し針を反対側まで 貫通させます  
 If you're queasy --   if you faint easily -- I was doing this for some friends  in the hotel room last night, and some people that I didn't know,  and one woman almost passed out.    	  吐き気を催しやすかったり-- すぐ気を失う方は目を・・・実はこれを昨夜 ホテルの部屋で友達と何人か知らない人の前でやったんですが 女性が一人気を失いかけていました  
 So, I suggest if you get queasy easy  that you look away for about the next 30 --  in fact, you know what, I'll do the first bad part behind it.    	  なのでもし気持ち悪くなってしまう方は これから30秒ほど目をそらして-- 最初の怖い一部は隠してやりましょう  
 You'll get to see, you can look away too if you'd like to.    	  見えてしまいますが いやでしたら目をそらしてくださいね  
 So, here is what happens, right here,  the beginning of my flesh  at the lower part of my arm I just make  a little pierce.    	  では始めましょう　ここの 腕の下の方を スタート地点にして ここから貫通させましょう  
 I'm sorry, man. Am I freaking you out?    	  申し訳ないです　怖がらせていませんかね？  
 OK, and then just through my skin a tiny bit,  and then out the other side like this.    	  それでは皮の下を少しだけ破って 反対側まで貫通させてみましょう  
 Now, essentially we're in the same position we were in  with the knife trick.    	  基本的に 我々がやっていることは先ほどの ナイフのトリックと同じことです  
   Sort of.    	   ある意味ではね  
 But you can't count my fingers right now can you?    	  でも今は指を数えることができないでしょ？  
 So, let me show them to you. That's one, two  three, four, five.    	  見てみましょうか　１本　２本 ３本　４本　５本  
 Yes, well...    	  そうですね...  
 I know what people think when they see this.    	  何を考えているかわかりますよ  
 They go, "Well, he's certainly not dumb enough  to stab himself through the skin to entertain us for a few minutes.    	  「数分のエンターテインメントの為に 自分の腕を刺すなんてことはしないだろう」ってね  
 So, let me give you a little peek.    	  では少しだけ見てみましょうか  
 How's that look out there? Pretty good.    	  どう見えますか？上手くいきました  
   Yeah, I know.   And the people in the back go, "OK, I didn't really see that."    	   分かってますよ 後方の席の方々は「よく見えなかったな」って言ってるでしょう  
 People in the satellite room are starting to move in now.    	  中継室にいる方はスクリーンに近付いているでしょう  
 Let me give you good close look at this.    	  もう少しよく見てみましょうか  
 That really is my skin. That is not a Hollywood special effect.    	  これは本当に私の腕です　ハリウッドの特殊効果ではないです  
 That's my flesh, and I can twist that around.    	  私の体ですから少し揺することもできます  
 I'm sorry. If you're getting queasy, look away,  don't look at the thing.    	  すいません　気分が悪くなりだしたら目をそらして 見ないでください  
 People in the back or people on video years from now watching this  will go, "Well yeah, that looks kind of neat  in some sort of effect there, but if it were real he would be --  see there's a hole there and a hole there, if it were real he would be bleeding.    	  後方の皆さんや後にビデオでこれを見る人は 「そうだな　なんか上手に出来てるみたいだけど もし本当に腕を貫通しているなら出血するだろう」 と言っているでしょうね　こことここに穴があるんですよ  
 Well let me work up some blood for you.    	  では少し出血させてみましょうか  
   Yes, there it is.    	   ほら出てきた  
     Normally now, I would take the needle out.    	  （拍手）  普段ならここで針を抜いて  
 I would clean off my arm, and I would show you that there are no wounds.    	  腕をふき 穴がない事をお見せするんですが  
 But I think in this context  and with the idea of taking something fake  and making it into something real,  I'm just going to leave it there,  and walk off the stage.    	  この状況下では 何か偽りのものを本物に 変えるというアイデアと一緒に とっておきましょう そしてステージから去りましょう  
   I will be seeing you several times over the next few days.    	   明日 明後日も皆さんにお会いできるので  
 I hope you're looking forward to that. Thank you very much.    	  楽しみにしていただけると幸いです ありがとうございました  
 So, I've known a lot of fish in my life.    	  魚との出会いは多かったけど  
 I've loved only two.    	  ほんとに好きになったのは2回だけ  
 That first one,  it was more like a passionate affair.    	  最初の魚には 熱烈に恋した  
 It was a beautiful fish:  flavorful, textured, meaty,  a bestseller on the menu.    	  すごい美人で 味 歯ごたえ 肉質 文句なし メニューの売れ筋だった ほんとにステキなサカナちゃん  
   Even better,  it was farm-raised to the supposed highest standards  of sustainability. So you could feel good about selling it.    	   さらに良いことには 養殖魚だった それも最高レベルの 環境に優しい養魚場で育てられた  
 I was in a relationship with this beauty  for several months.    	  だから良心の呵責なし 数ヶ月の間 僕は  
 One day, the head of the company called  and asked if I'd speak at an event  about the farm's sustainability.    	  この魚に もう夢中 ある日 養魚場のボスが電話してきた イベントで 話してくれないかって 養魚場が環境に優しいことについて  
 "Absolutely," I said.    	  「喜んで」と僕はこたえた  
 Here was a company trying to solve  what's become this unimaginable problem for us chefs:  How do we keep fish on our menus?    	  とうとう良心的な会社が現れたんだ シェフの最大の悩みを解決してくれる会社が それは「どうしたら魚をメニューに出し続けることができるか」ということ  
 For the past 50 years,  we've been fishing the seas  like we clear-cut forests.    	  過去50年の間に 人は海を荒らし続けた 森林を皆伐するように  
 It's hard to overstate the destruction.    	  破壊の規模は計り知れない  
 Ninety percent of large fish, the ones we love --  the tunas, the halibuts, the salmons, swordfish --  they've collapsed.    	  皆の大好きな 大型魚の90%がいなくなった マグロ オヒョウ サケ メカジキ 乱獲されて  
 There's almost nothing left.    	  ほどんど絶滅状態だ  
 So, for better or for worse,  aquaculture, fish farming, is going to be a part of our future.    	  だから しかたがない 養殖漁業は 時代の流れだ  
 A lot of arguments against it:  Fish farms pollute -- most of them do anyway --  and they're inefficient. Take tuna,  a major drawback.    	  反対意見が多い 養魚場は海を汚す これは本当 非効率的だ マグロを見ろ 最大の悪玉だ  
 It's got a feed conversion ratio  of 15 to one.    	  マグロの 餌の転換率は 15対1だ  
 That means it takes fifteen pounds of wild fish  to get you one pound of farm tuna.    	  餌の魚15ポンドが マグロの肉1ポンドになる  
 Not very sustainable.    	  とても環境に優しいとは言えないね  
 It doesn't taste very good either.    	  味も良くない  
 So here, finally,  was a company trying to do it right.    	  ところが ついに 正しいことをやろうという会社が現れたんだ  
 I wanted to support them.    	  この会社を応援したかった  
 The day before the event,  I called the head of P.R. for the company.    	  イベントの前日に 広報部長に電話をかけた  
 Let's call him Don.    	  この人をドンとしておこう  
 "Don," I said, "just to get the facts straight, you guys are famous  for farming so far out to sea, you don't pollute."    	  ドン 確認したいんだが 君の会社は 沖で養殖するから 海を汚さないんだろう？  
 "That's right," he said. "We're so far out,  the waste from our fish gets distributed,  not concentrated."    	  「そうとも 沖合だから」 「排泄物は 拡散して」 「一カ所を汚すことはないんだ」  
 And then he added,  "We're basically a world unto ourselves.    	  そして 「うちは 周囲の環境に依存してないんだ」  
 That feed conversion ratio? 2.5 to one," he said.    	  「餌の転換率？ 2.5対１さ」  
 "Best in the business."    	  「業界ナンバーワンだ」  
 2.5 to one, great.    	  2.5対１か そりゃすごい  
 "2.5 what? What are you feeding?"    	  何の2.5対1なんだ 何を餌に使ってるんだい  
 "Sustainable proteins," he said.    	  「環境に優しいタンパク質さ」  
 "Great," I said. Got off the phone.    	  そりゃすごいや 僕は電話を切った  
 And that night, I was lying in bed, and I thought:  What the hell is a sustainable protein?    	  その晩ベッドで横になり 考えた 「環境に優しいタンパク質」って いったい何だ？  
   So the next day, just before the event, I called Don.    	   次の日 イベントの直前に もういちど電話した  
 I said, "Don, what are some examples of sustainable proteins?"    	  環境に優しいタンパク質の例を挙げてくれないか  
 He said he didn't know. He would ask around.    	  ドンは知らなかった 尋ねてみるよって  
 Well, I got on the phone with a few people in the company;  no one could give me a straight answer  until finally, I got on the phone  with the head biologist.    	  会社の担当者と電話で話した でも 誰もはっきりと答えてくれない 最後に電話に出たのは 主任生物研究員だった  
 Let's call him Don too.    	  この人もドンとしとこう  
   "Don," I said,  "what are some examples of sustainable proteins?"    	   ドン 環境に優しいタンパク質の例を挙げてくれ  
 Well, he mentioned some algaes  and some fish meals,  and then he said chicken pellets.    	  彼が言うには 藻類 魚粉 そして 「チキンペレット」  
 I said, "Chicken pellets?"    	  チキンペレット？  
 He said, "Yeah, feathers, skin,  bone meal, scraps,  dried and processed into feed."    	  「そうだ 羽根 皮」 「骨粉 くず肉」 「それを乾かして加工して 飼料にするんだ」  
 I said, "What percentage  of your feed is chicken?"    	  何パーセント チキンを入れてるの？  
 Thinking, you know, two percent.    	  たぶん2%位だと思ったんだ  
 "Well, it's about 30 percent," he said.    	  「30%かな」  
 I said, "Don, what's sustainable  about feeding chicken to fish?"    	  ドン それで環境に優しいのかい？ チキンを魚の餌にして？  
   There was a long pause on the line,  and he said, "There's just too much chicken in the world."    	   しばらく押し黙ってたよ そして言った 「だって 世界はチキンだらけじゃないか」  
   I fell out of love with this fish.    	   僕の恋は冷めちゃったよ  
   No, not because I'm some self-righteous,  I actually am.    	   それは 僕が独善的な いい子ぶった 美食家だからじゃない ホントはそうなんだけどね  
   No, I actually fell out of love with this fish because, I swear to God,  after that conversation, the fish tasted like chicken.    	   恋はすっかり冷めた 本当だよ 電話の後 魚がチキン味になったんだ  
   This second fish,  it's a different kind of love story.    	   二番目の魚は 別の恋物語さ  
 It's the romantic kind,  the kind where the more you get to know your fish,  you love the fish.    	  ロマンチックな恋だ 相手を知れば知るほど 好きになるという具合  
 I first ate it at a restaurant  in southern Spain.    	  最初の出会いは 南スペインのレストランだ  
 A journalist friend had been talking about this fish for a long time.    	  ジャーナリストの友人が この魚の話ばかり  
 She kind of set us up.    	  彼女が二人の仲人ってわけさ  
   It came to the table  a bright, almost shimmering, white color.    	   テーブルに運ばれてきた魚は 白身で 光輝くよう  
 The chef had overcooked it.    	  シェフが熱を通しすぎてた  
 Like twice over.    	  二倍ほどね  
 Amazingly, it was still delicious.    	  でも 驚いたね とってもおいしい  
 Who can make a fish taste good  after it's been overcooked?    	  いったい誰が 魚を料理して 熱を通しすぎたのに おいしくできるだろう  
 I can't,  but this guy can.    	  僕にはムリだ でもこの男にはできる  
 Let's call him Miguel --  actually his name is Miguel.    	  彼を 仮にミゲールと呼ぼう 実は 本名なんだ  
   And no, he didn't cook the fish, and he's not a chef,  at least in the way that you and I understand it.    	   本当は 彼は料理してない シェフじゃないんだ 少なくとも僕たちが思うようなシェフじゃない  
 It's a fish farm in the southwestern corner of Spain.    	  スペインの南西端にある― ヴェタ ラ パルマ養魚場の  
 It's at the tip of the Guadalquivir river.    	  生物学者なんだ グアダルキビール川の河口にある  
 Until the 1980s,  the farm was in the hands of the Argentinians.    	  1980年代までは そこは アルゼンチンの業者が所有していて  
 They raised beef cattle  on what was essentially wetlands.    	  肉牛の牧場だった もともとは 湿地帯だったものを  
 They did it by draining the land.    	  干拓したんだ  
 They built this intricate series of canals,  and they pushed water off the land and out into the river.    	  運河を張り巡らし 水を川に移した  
 Well, they couldn't make it work,  not economically.    	  でも 農場はうまくいかなかった 採算が取れなかったんだ 生態系は 壊滅状態  
 And ecologically, it was a disaster.    	  90％の鳥が死んでしまった  
 It killed like 90 percent of the birds,  And so in 1982,  a Spanish company with an environmental conscience  purchased the land.    	  ここでの90%は 膨大な数の鳥だ それで 1982年に 環境保護に熱心なスペインの会社が この土地を買い取って  
 What did they do?    	  何をしたと思う？  
 They reversed the flow of water.    	  水の流れを逆転させたのさ  
 They literally flipped the switch.    	  文字通りスイッチを逆に入れた  
 Instead of pushing water out,  they used the channels to pull water back in.    	  排水するかわりに 水を運河に入れたのさ  
 They flooded the canals.    	  運河をあふれさせて  
 They created a 27,000-acre fish farm --  bass, mullet,  shrimp, eel --  and in the process, Miguel and this company  completely reversed the ecological destruction.    	  109平方キロの養魚場を作った スズキ ボラ エビ ウナギ その過程で ミゲールと会社は 生態系の破壊を逆転させた  
 The farm's incredible.    	  この養魚場は素晴らしい  
 I mean, you've never seen anything like this.    	  こんなものは前例がない  
 You stare out at a horizon  that is a million miles away,  and all you see are flooded canals  and this thick, rich marshland.    	  水平線を見ると はるか遠くまで見渡せて 目の届く限り運河が水に浸かり 分厚い 豊かな 湿地が形成されている  
 I was there not long ago with Miguel.    	  最近僕はミゲールに案内してもらった  
 He's an amazing guy,  like three parts Charles Darwin and one part Crocodile Dundee.    	  すごいヤツだ この男は ダーウィンとクロコダイルダンディーを合わせたようなヤツ  
   Okay? There we are slogging through the wetlands,  and I'm panting and sweating, got mud up to my knees,  and Miguel's calmly conducting a biology lecture.    	   僕らは 湿原に踏み込んだ 僕はあえいで汗びっしょり ひざまで泥だらけ ミゲールはすまし顔で 生物学を講義  
 Here, he's pointing out a rare Black-shouldered Kite.    	  ほら と指さして 「希少種の カタグロトビだ」  
 Now, he's mentioning the mineral needs of phytoplankton.    	  植物プランクトンに必要な無機質  
 And here, here he sees a grouping pattern  that reminds him of the Tanzanian Giraffe.    	  さらに 生物群集を見て タンザニアのキリンを思い出した と言う  
 It turns out, Miguel spent the better part of his career  in the Mikumi National Park in Africa.    	  後で分かった 彼はそのキャリアの大部分を アフリカのミクミ国立公園で過ごしたそうだ  
 I asked him how he became  such an expert on fish.    	  どうやって と僕は尋ねた 魚の専門家になったんだい？  
 He said, "Fish? I didn't know anything about fish.    	  「魚？ 魚については全くのシロウトだった」  
 I'm an expert in relationships."    	  「僕は生き物の関係性の専門家なんだ」  
 And then he's off, launching into more talk  about rare birds and algaes  and strange aquatic plants.    	  そして さらに話を続けた 希少な鳥類や藻類の話 珍しい海草の話  
 And don't get me wrong, that was really fascinating, you know,  the biotic community unplugged, kind of thing.    	  誤解しちゃダメだよ すばらしい話だった 生物共同体の それは見事な天国さ  
 It's great, but I was in love.    	  素晴らしかった でも僕の方は  
 And my head was swooning over that  overcooked piece of delicious fish I had the night before.    	  頭から離れなかったんだ くらくらして 前夜に食べた あの魚のことで  
 So I interrupted him. I said,  "Miguel, what makes your fish taste so good?"    	  それで 話題を変えて 尋ねた なぜ君の魚はあんなにおいしいの？  
 He pointed at the algae.    	  すると 彼は藻類を指さした  
 "I know, dude, the algae, the phytoplankton,  the relationships: It's amazing.    	  分かってるよ 藻類だろ 植物性プランクトン 生命の連環だろ すごいね  
 But what are your fish eating?    	  でも 魚は何を食べてるんだい？  
 What's the feed conversion ratio?"    	  餌の転換率は？  
 Well, he goes on to tell me  it's such a rich system  that the fish are eating what they'd be eating in the wild.    	  彼が答えるには 「生態系が豊かだから」 「魚は自然にあるものを食べているのさ」  
 The plant biomass, the phytoplankton,  the zooplankton, it's what feeds the fish.    	  「水草 植物プランクトン」 「動物プランクトン そんなものが餌さ」  
 The system is so healthy,  it's totally self-renewing.    	  「生態系が健康だから」 「自然に すべてのものが再生する」  
 There is no feed.    	  「餌なんてやってない」  
 Ever heard of a farm that doesn't feed its animals?    	  聞いたことある？ 餌をやらない養魚場なんて  
 Later that day, I was driving around this property with Miguel,  and I asked him, I said, "For a place that seems so natural,  unlike like any farm I'd ever been at,  how do you measure success?"    	  午後遅く 養魚場の周りをドライブした ミゲール ここは自然そのものだね これまで見たどんな養魚場とも違う いったいどうやって成功の度合いを計るの？  
 At that moment, it was as if  a film director called for a set change.    	  と まさにその時 あたかも 映画監督が 背景の切り替えを命じたように  
 And we rounded the corner  and saw the most amazing sight:  thousands and thousands of pink flamingos,  a literal pink carpet for as far as you could see.    	  カーブを曲がると 驚くべき光景が目に飛び込んできた ピンクフラミンゴが数千羽 目の届く限り カーペットを敷き詰めたよう  
 "That's success," he said.    	  「これだ これこそが成功だ！」と彼は叫んだ  
 "Look at their bellies, pink.    	  「あの おなかを見ろよ ピンク色だ」  
 They're feasting."    	  「たらふく食べてるんだ」  
 Feasting? I was totally confused.    	  食べてる？ 僕は混乱した  
 I said, "Miguel, aren't they feasting on your fish?"    	  鳥たちの食べてるのは君の魚だよ  
   "Yes," he said.    	   「そのとおりさ！」  
   "We lose 20 percent of our fish  and fish eggs to birds.    	   「ここでは魚と魚卵の」 「20%を鳥に食べられるんだ」  
 Well, last year, this property  had 600,000 birds on it,  more than 250 different species.    	  「昨年ここには」 「60万羽の鳥がいた」 「250種以上だ」  
 It's become, today, the largest  and one of the most important  private bird sanctuaries in all of Europe."    	  「現在 ここは ヨーロッパ最大で」 「もっとも重要な」 「個人所有の 野鳥の楽園になっている」  
 I said, "Miguel, isn't a thriving bird population  like the last thing you want on a fish farm?"    	  鳥が繁殖するということは 君がもっとも嫌うべきことじゃないのかい？  
   He shook his head, no.    	   彼は頭を振って 「ちがうね」  
 He said, "We farm extensively,  not intensively.    	  「ここでは粗放的な養殖をしている」 「集約的な養殖じゃない」  
 This is an ecological network.    	  「これは生態系のネットワークなんだ」  
 The flamingos eat the shrimp.    	  「フラミンゴがエビを食べ」  
 The shrimp eat the phytoplankton.    	  「エビが植物プランクトンを食べる」  
 So the pinker the belly,  the better the system."    	  「だから おなかがピンクであればあるほど」 「生態系は健全ってわけさ」  
 Okay, so let's review:  a farm that doesn't feed its animals,  and a farm that measures its success  on the health of its predators.    	  じゃあ ここで復習だ この養魚場は 魚に餌をやらない 養魚場はその成功の度合いを 魚の天敵の健康状態で計る  
 A fish farm, but also a bird sanctuary.    	  養魚場でありながら 野鳥の楽園  
 Oh, and by the way, those flamingos,  they shouldn't even be there in the first place.    	  そうそう あのフラミンゴたちは そもそも ここに来るべきじゃないんだ  
 They brood in a town  150 miles away,  where the soil conditions  are better for building nests.    	  フラミンゴの巣は遠くの町 240km離れたところにある そこは土の状態が 巣を作るのに適してるんだ  
 Every morning, they fly  150 miles into the farm.    	  毎朝 フラミンゴは飛んで 240kmを 養魚場まで来る  
 And every evening, they fly 150 miles back.    	  夕方になると 240kmを飛んで 巣に戻る  
   They do that because they're able to follow  the broken white line  of highway A92.    	   フラミンゴは ハイウェイ A92号線の 白線に沿って 飛んでくるのさ  
   No kidding.    	   ホントだよ  
 I was imagining a "March of the Penguins" thing,  so I looked at Miguel.    	  僕は 映画の「皇帝ペンギン」を想像してたんだ それでミゲールに尋ねた  
 I said, "Miguel, do they fly  150 miles to the farm,  and then do they fly  150 miles back at night?    	  ミゲール フラミンゴが240kmを 飛んで ここに来て 240km 飛んで 巣に戻るけど  
 Do they do that for the children?"    	  それは ヒナのためかい？  
 He looked at me like I had just quoted a Whitney Houston song.    	  彼は ホイットニー ヒューストンの歌詞を聴いたかのように 僕を見て  
   He said, "No; they do it because the food's better."    	   言った「違うよ 餌がいいからさ」  
   I didn't mention the skin of my beloved fish,  which was delicious -- and I don't like fish skin;  I don't like it seared, I don't like it crispy.    	   この魚の皮については言ってなかったね とってもおいしいんだ でも僕は本当は皮は嫌い 焼いても嫌い カリカリでも嫌い  
 It's that acrid, tar-like flavor.    	  苦みがあって タールのような味がするからね  
 I almost never cook with it.    	  皮をつけて料理することはまずないんだ  
 Yet, when I tasted it at that restaurant in southern Spain,  it tasted not at all like fish skin.    	  でも レストランでその魚を食べたときには それは魚の皮みたいじゃなかった  
 It tasted sweet and clean,  like you were taking a bite of the ocean.    	  甘くて 清らか 大海の一片を 口に入れたと思った  
 I mentioned that to Miguel, and he nodded.    	  ミゲールにそう言うと 彼はうなずいて  
 He said, "The skin acts like a sponge.    	  「魚の皮はスポンジだ」  
 It's the last defense before anything enters the body.    	  「異物への最後の防御壁だからね」  
 It evolved to soak up impurities."    	  「不純物を吸い取るように進化したのさ」  
 And then he added,  "But our water has no impurities."    	  そして こうも言った 「ここの水には不純物がないんだ」  
 OK. A farm that doesn't feed its fish,  a farm that measures its success  by the success of its predators.    	  もう一度復習 養魚場は魚に餌をやらない 養魚場は天敵の繁殖状態で その成功を計る  
 And then I realized when he says,  "A farm that has no impurities,"  he made a big understatement,  because the water that flows through that farm  comes in from the Guadalquivir River.    	  ここで ようやく僕は気がついた 養魚場には不純物がないと聞いて 彼がまだ言ってないことに 気づいたのさ それは この養魚場に流れ込む グアダラキビール川の水が  
 It's a river that carries with it  all the things that rivers tend to carry these days:  chemical contaminants,  pesticide runoff.    	  運んでくるものは 今日の川が運んでくるものすべて 化学汚染物質 流れ出した殺虫剤  
 And when it works its way through the system  and leaves,  the water is cleaner than when it entered.    	  その水が この養魚場の中を通って 流れ出る時 水はきれいになっている  
 The system is so healthy, it purifies the water.    	  生態系が健全なので 水を浄化するんだ  
 So, not just a farm that doesn't feed its animals,  not just a farm that measures its success  by the health of its predators,  but a farm that's literally a water purification plant --  and not just for those fish,  but for you and me as well.    	  この養魚場は 魚に餌をやらないだけでなく 養魚場の成功を計るのに 天敵の健康を目安にするだけでなく 文字通り水質浄化工場なんだ そして 魚だけじゃなく 君たちや僕のためにもなっている  
 Because when that water leaves, it dumps out into the Atlantic.    	  だって 水がここから 大西洋に入るだろ  
 A drop in the ocean, I know,  but I'll take it, and so should you,  because this love story,  however romantic,  is also instructive.    	  大海の一滴に過ぎないけれど 僕は大事なことだと思う 君たちもそうだろう この恋物語は とてもロマンチックだが 教訓的でもある  
 for the future of good food,  whether we're talking about bass or beef cattle.    	  これは 未来のおいしい食のための レシピと言えるだろう スズキだろうが肉牛だろうが関係ない  
 What we need now is  a radically new conception of agriculture,  one in which the food actually tastes good.    	  今僕たちに必要なのは 農業に対する画期的な思考法だ 食べ物を本当においしくする考え方だ  
     But for a lot people,  that's a bit too radical.    	   （拍手） でも大多数の人には これはちょっと過激すぎる  
 We're not realists, us foodies;  we're lovers.    	  僕らグルメは現実主義者じゃない 僕らは恋愛主義者さ  
 We love farmers' markets,  we love small family farms,  we talk about local food,  we eat organic.    	  僕らは 農場直営のマーケットが好き 家族経営の農場が好き 土地の食材について熱く語り 有機食品が大好きさ  
 And when you suggest these are the things  that will ensure the future of good food,  someone, somewhere stands up and says,  "Hey guy, I love pink flamingos,  but how are you going to feed the world?"    	  でも 今言ったことが おいしい食の未来だと 説明すると 必ず誰かが立ち上がって言うよ 「ねえ君 ピンクフラミンゴは僕も好きさ」 「でも それで世界が養えるかい？」  
 How are you going to feed the world?    	  「どうやって世界の食を確保するんだい？」  
 Can I be honest?    	  正直言って  
 I don't love that question.    	  この質問は嫌いだね  
 No, not because we already produce  enough calories to more than feed the world.    	  僕らがすでに 世界中の人たちに 十分な食料を生産しているからじゃない  
 One billion people will go hungry today.    	  今 10億人の人が飢えている  
 One billion -- that's more than ever before --  because of gross inequalities in distribution,  not tonnage.    	  10億人 歴史始まって以来だ 実は 飢えは分配の不平等で生じるんだ 生産量じゃない  
 Now, I don't love this question because it's determined the logic  of our food system for the last 50 years.    	  この質問が嫌いなのは この質問が 過去50年の食糧政策を支えているからだ  
 Feed grain to herbivores,  pesticides to monocultures, chemicals to soil,  chicken to fish,  and all along agribusiness  has simply asked,  "If we're feeding more people more cheaply,  how terrible could that be?"    	  「草食の家畜に穀物を与えろ」 「単一栽培して 殺虫剤をまけ 土に化学肥料を」 「魚にチキンを」 この間 農業ビジネスが 言ってきたのは 「より多くの人間に」 「より安い食料を与えることほど」 「バカげたことがあるだろうか？」  
 That's been the motivation,  it's been the justification:  it's been the business plan  of American agriculture.    	  これが動機なんだ これが理由なんだ これがビジネスモデルなんだ アメリカの農業のね  
 We should call it what it is:  a business that's quickly eroding  ecological capital that makes that very production possible.    	  この正体は 「投げ売りビジネス」だ 生産を成り立たせる 生態系の資本を 急速に崩壊させているんだ  
 That's not a business,  and it isn't agriculture.    	  これは ビジネスなんかじゃない 農業でもない  
 Our breadbasket is threatened today,  not because of diminishing supply,  but because of diminishing resources.    	  世界の食料庫が危ういのは 供給が減ってるからじゃない 資源が枯渇してきたからだ  
 Not by the latest combine and tractor invention,  but by fertile land;  not by pumps, but by fresh water;  not by chainsaws, but by forests;  and not by fishing boats and nets, but by fish in the sea.    	  新しい農業機械が発明されないからじゃない 肥えた土地が不足しているからだ ポンプや真水の不足じゃない チェンソー不足じゃない 森林が減っているからだ 漁船や漁網の不足でもない 魚が減っているからだ  
 Want to feed the world?    	  世界の食を確保するには  
 Let's start by asking: How are we going to feed ourselves?    	  まず 僕たちの食を確保することを考えよう  
 Or better: How can we create conditions  that enable every community  to feed itself?    	  どうしたら すべての共同体が 自らの食を確保できる状態を 作り出せるか考えよう  
   To do that,  don't look at the agribusiness model for the future.    	  （拍手） そのためには 現在の農業モデルは  
 It's really old, and it's tired.    	  古くて時代遅れだ  
 It's high on capital, chemistry and machines,  and it's never produced anything really good to eat.    	  資本 化学物質 機械に頼りすぎだ 本当においしいものができたためしがない  
 Instead, let's look to the ecological model.    	  かわりに エコなモデルを見習おう  
 That's the one that relies on two billion years  of on-the-job experience.    	  それは20億年の 現場の体験に基づいているんだ  
 Look to Miguel,  farmers like Miguel.    	  ミゲールを見習おう ミゲールのような生産者を見習おう  
 Farms that aren't worlds unto themselves;  farms that restore instead of deplete;  farms that farm extensively  farmers that are not just producers,  but experts in relationships.    	  環境に配慮した農家を見習おう 荒廃を止めて回復させる農家を見習おう 粗放的に経営する農家を見習おう 集約的な経営じゃない 単なる生産者ではなく 命のつながりを大事にする農家を見習おう  
 Because they're the ones  that are experts in flavor, too.    	  彼らこそが 味を大事にするからだ  
 And if I'm going to be really honest,  they're a better chef than I'll ever be.    	  いいかい 正直なところ 彼らの方が僕よりも腕の立つ料理人だ  
 You know, I'm okay with that,  because if that's the future of good food, it's going to be delicious.    	  でも 僕はそれでいい それが未来のおいしい食のあり方さ ほっぺが落ちるよ  
 Thank you.    	  どうもありがとう  
 I grew up on a steady diet of science fiction.    	  私はSFで育ちました  
 In high school, I took a bus to school  an hour each way every day.    	  高校時代は片道一時間の道を バスで通いましたが  
 And I was always absorbed in a book,  science fiction book,  which took my mind to other worlds,  and satisfied, in a narrative form,  this insatiable sense of curiosity that I had.    	  いつも本に没頭していました SFの本です 心は別世界に飛び 物語という形で 飽くことのない 好奇心を満たしてくれました  
 And you know, that curiosity also manifested itself  in the fact that whenever I wasn't in school  I was out in the woods,  hiking and taking "samples" --  frogs and snakes and bugs and pond water --  and bringing it back, looking at it under the microscope.    	  好奇心は別の形でも顔を出し 学校がないときはいつも 森にハイキングに出かけ 標本集めをしていました カエル ヘビ 虫や池の水など 持ち帰っては 顕微鏡で覗きました  
 You know, I was a real science geek.    	  科学オタクだったんですね  
 But it was all about trying to understand the world,  understand the limits of possibility.    	  それらは全て 世界を理解したい 可能性の限界を知りたいがためでした  
 And my love of science fiction  actually seemed mirrored in the world around me,  because what was happening, this was in the late '60s,  we were going to the moon,  we were exploring the deep oceans.    	  そして 私のSFに対する愛は 現実世界にも反映されているようでした この60年代後半の時代は 人類は月を目指し 深海を探索していました  
 Jacques Cousteau was coming into our living rooms  with his amazing specials that showed us  animals and places and a wondrous world  that we could never really have previously imagined.    	  ジャック・クストーの特別番組が放映され 私たちがそれまで想像もしなかった 驚異的な生物や光景を 見せてくれた時代でもあります  
 So, that seemed to resonate  with the whole science fiction part of it.    	  それらのSF的な側面が 私の心に響いたのでしょう  
 And I was an artist.    	  また 私は芸術家でもありました  
 I could draw. I could paint.    	  スケッチや絵が描けました  
 And I found that because there weren't video games  and this saturation of CG movies and all of this  imagery in the media landscape,  I had to create these images in my head.    	  当時はテレビゲームもありませんでしたし 今日のように映画やメディアがCGで 溢れかえってもいなかったので 自分で想像するしか無かったのです  
 You know, we all did, as kids having to  read a book, and through the author's description,  put something on the movie screen in our heads.    	  私たちは皆そうでしたよね 本を読んで その記述から 頭の中のスクリーンに想い描いたのです  
 And so, my response to this was to paint, to draw  alien creatures, alien worlds,  robots, spaceships, all that stuff.    	  私が想い描いたのは エイリアンや 異世界 ロボットに宇宙船などでした  
 I was endlessly getting busted in math class  doodling behind the textbook.    	  授業では 教科書に落書きしているのを 見つかる度に 怒られていました  
 That was -- the creativity  had to find its outlet somehow.    	  つまるところ 想像力には はけ口が必要なんでしょうね  
 And an interesting thing happened: The Jacques Cousteau shows  actually got me very excited about the fact that there was  an alien world right here on Earth.    	  興味深いことに ジャック・クストーが この地球上に「異世界」があるという事実を伝え 私はすごく興奮しました  
 I might not really go to an alien world  on a spaceship someday --  that seemed pretty darn unlikely.    	  私が宇宙船で異世界に行くことは まずないでしょう あり得ない事でした  
 But that was a world I could really go to,  right here on Earth, that was as rich and exotic  as anything that I had imagined  from reading these books.    	  でも 本を読んで想像したのと 同じくらい豊かで魅惑的な世界が この地球に存在する事が 分かったのです  
 So, I decided I was going to become a scuba diver  at the age of 15.    	  なので ダイバーになろうと決めました 15歳の時です  
 And the only problem with that was that I lived  in a little village in Canada,  600 miles from the nearest ocean.    	  唯一の問題は 私がカナダの 片田舎に住んでいて 海から1000キロ離れている事でした  
 But I didn't let that daunt me.    	  でも くじけませんでした  
 I pestered my father until he finally found  a scuba class in Buffalo, New York,  right across the border from where we live.    	  親父にせがんで 国境を越えてすぐの ニューヨーク州バッファローにある ダイビングスクールを探してもらいました  
 And I actually got certified in a pool at a YMCA in the dead of winter  in Buffalo, New York.    	  そして本当に免許を取りました 真冬のニューヨークの  
 And I didn't see the ocean, a real ocean,  for another two years,  until we moved to California.    	  YMCAにあるプールでね しかもその後2年間 カリフォルニアに引っ越すまで  
 Since then, in the intervening  40 years,  I've spent about 3,000 hours underwater,  and 500 hours of that was in submersibles.    	  本物の海を見る事すらなかったんです それからというもの 40年間で およそ3000時間を水中で過ごしました そのうち500時間は潜水艇です  
 And I've learned that that deep-ocean environment,  and even the shallow oceans,  are so rich with amazing life  that really is beyond our imagination.    	  私が学んだのは 深海や 浅い海でさえ 私たちの想像を超える 驚くべき生物に満ちている事です  
 Nature's imagination is so boundless  compared to our own  meager human imagination.    	  自然界の想像力というのは 人類の 貧相な想像力と比べ 本当に無限大です  
 I still, to this day, stand in absolute awe  of what I see when I make these dives.    	  私は今でも 水中で目にする光景に 畏敬の念を禁じ得ません  
 And my love affair with the ocean is ongoing,  and just as strong as it ever was.    	  私の海への情熱は昔も今も 変わる事がありません  
 But when I chose a career as an adult,  it was filmmaking.    	  しかし大人になって選んだ職業は 映画制作でした  
 And that seemed to be the best way to reconcile  this urge I had to tell stories  with my urges to create images.    	  それは 物語を伝えたいという衝動と 映像を生み出したいという欲求を うまく調和できると思ったのです  
 And I was, as a kid, constantly drawing comic books, and so on.    	  子供の頃はいつも漫画を描いていましたしね  
 So, filmmaking was the way to put pictures and stories  together, and that made sense.    	  映画制作なら 映像とストーリーを 一緒にできます 理想的でした  
 And of course the stories that I chose to tell  were science fiction stories: "Terminator," "Aliens"  and "The Abyss."    	  そしてもちろん 私が選んだストーリーは SFものでした 「ターミネーター」に「エイリアン」 そして「アビス」  
 And with "The Abyss," I was putting together my love  of underwater and diving with filmmaking.    	  「アビス」では 私の海とダイビングに対する 愛情を 映画制作に注ぎました  
 So, you know, merging the two passions.    	  二つの情熱を組み合わせたんですね  
 Something interesting came out of "The Abyss,"  which was that to solve a specific narrative  problem on that film,  which was to create this kind of liquid water creature,  we actually embraced computer generated animation, CG.    	  「アビス」では面白い収穫がありました あるシーンの映像を作る上で 解決策が必要でした 水のような生き物を作る必要があったんです そこでコンピュータによるCGを利用しました  
 And this resulted in the first soft-surface  character, CG animation  that was ever in a movie.    	  結果的にそれは 映画界初の ソフトサーフェスCGアニメーションを使った キャラクターになりました  
 And even though the film didn't make any money --  barely broke even, I should say --  I witnessed something amazing, which is that the audience,  the global audience, was mesmerized  by this apparent magic.    	  全くお金にならない映画でしたが かろうじてトントン と言っておきましょうか とても興味深い発見をしたんです 世界中の観客が この目に見える魔法に 魅了されたのです  
 You know, it's Arthur Clarke's law  that any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.    	  まさにアーサー・クラークの法則： 「充分に発達した科学技術は 魔法と区別が付かない」です  
 They were seeing something magical.    	  観客は魔法を見ているかのようでした  
 And so that got me very excited.    	  その反応に私は興奮したんです  
 And I thought, "Wow, this is something that needs to be embraced  into the cinematic art."    	  「これは映像表現の手法として取り入れなければ！」 そう思いました  
 So, with "Terminator 2," which was my next film,  we took that much farther.    	  そこで 次の作品「ターミネーター2」では それを更に 推し進めました  
 Working with ILM, we created the liquid metal dude  in that film. The success hung in the balance  on whether that effect would work.    	  ILMと組んで 液状金属のキャラクターを生み出しました 映画の成功は その特殊効果が 当たるかどうかにかかっていました  
 And it did, and we created magic again,  and we had the same result with an audience --  although we did make a little more money on that one.    	  そして成功したんです 再び魔法が生まれました 観客の反応も前回同様でした 前よりはお金になりましたけどね  
 So, drawing a line through those two dots  of experience  came to, "This is going to be a whole new world,"  this was a whole new world of creativity  for film artists.    	  異なる二つの経験を 組み合わせることにより 全く新しい世界 映画制作者にとって 今までにない想像の世界が もたらされると思いました  
 So, I started a company with Stan Winston,  my good friend Stan Winston,  who is the premier make-up and creature designer  at that time, and it was called Digital Domain.    	  そこで当時一流のクリーチャーデザイナー兼 メイクアップアーティストだった スタン・ウィンストンと デジタル・ドメインという会社を始めたのです  
 And the concept of the company was  the analog processes of optical printers and so on,  and we would go right to digital production.    	  会社のコンセプトは 光学式プリンタのようなアナログのプロセスを 過去のものにし デジタルプロダクションに  
 And we actually did that and it gave us a competitive advantage for a while.    	  一気に移行しようというものでした 私たちはそれをやり遂げ しばらくは業界をリードしましたが  
 But we found ourselves lagging in the mid '90s  in the creature and character design stuff  that we had actually founded the company to do.    	  90年代半ばには 怪物や キャラクターデザインにおいて 後れを取りました その為の会社であったにも関わらずです  
 So, I wrote this piece called "Avatar,"  which was meant to absolutely push the envelope  of visual effects,  of CG effects, beyond,  with realistic human emotive characters  generated in CG,  and the main characters would all be in CG,  and the world would be in CG.    	  そこで「アバター」を書きました 特殊効果やCGの限界を 圧倒的に押し広げ 人間のように情感豊かな キャラクターが CGで 登場するものでした 主要なキャラクターは全てCGで 世界もまたCGで出来ています  
 And the envelope pushed back,  and I was told by the folks at my company  that we weren't going to be able to do this for a while.    	  でも限界はすぐ押し戻されました この作品はまだしばらく無理だと 会社のスタッフに言われたんです  
 So, I shelved it, and I made this other movie about a big ship that sinks.    	  なので一旦保留にして でかい船が沈む映画を作りました  
   You know, I went and pitched it to the studio as "'Romeo and Juliet' on a ship:  "It's going to be this epic romance,  passionate film."    	   映画会社には「これは船上のロミオとジュリエットだ」 「壮大なラブロマンスなんだ」と 売り込みました  
 Secretly, what I wanted to do was  I wanted to dive to the real wreck of "Titanic."    	  でも密かに私が企んでいたのは 実物のタイタニック号を潜って見る事でした  
 And that's why I made the movie.    	  その為にこの映画を作ったんです  
   And that's the truth. Now, the studio didn't know that.    	   本当です でも制作会社には言えません  
 But I convinced them. I said,  "We're going to dive to the wreck. We're going to film it for real.    	  そこでこう言って説得しました 「本物のタイタニックを撮影しましょう」  
 We'll be using it in the opening of the film.    	  「それを映画のオープニングで使うんです」  
 It will be really important. It will be a great marketing hook."    	  「もの凄い宣伝効果がありますよ」  
 And I talked them into funding an expedition.    	  そして探索の経費まで話をつけました  
   Sounds crazy. But this goes back to that theme  about your imagination creating a reality.    	   どうかしてますよね　でもこれが 想像力が 現実を生み出すという テーマに戻ってくるんです  
 Because we actually created a reality where six months later,  I find myself in a Russian submersible  two and a half miles down in the north Atlantic,  looking at the real Titanic through a view port.    	  なぜなら 半年後私たちは 実際にロシアの潜水艇に乗り 深度4000メートルの北大西洋で 本物のタイタニック号を見ていたんです  
 Not a movie, not HD -- for real.    	  映画でもテレビでもなく 現実にです  
   Now, that blew my mind.    	  （拍手） 何もかも圧倒的でした  
 And it took a lot of preparation, we had to build cameras  and lights and all kinds of things.    	  準備からして大変でした カメラから照明から 全部作りました  
 But, it struck me how much  this dive, these deep dives,  was like a space mission.    	  驚いたのは 深海への潜水が まるで宇宙での活動のように 感じられる事でした  
 You know, where it was highly technical,  and it required enormous planning.    	  極めて専門的な分野であり 膨大な準備を必要とします  
 You get in this capsule, you go down to this dark  hostile environment  where there is no hope of rescue  And I thought like, "Wow. I'm like,  living in a science fiction movie.    	  小さなカプセルに閉じこもって 自力で戻れなければ 絶体絶命な 暗黒の世界へ向かうんです こう思いました 「まるでSF映画の中にいるみたいだ」  
 This is really cool."    	  「これは凄いぞ」  
 And so, I really got bitten by the bug of deep-ocean exploration.    	  そして深海探索の虜になりました  
 Of course, the curiosity, the science component of it --  it was everything. It was adventure,  it was curiosity, it was imagination.    	  その奇妙さと科学的な側面に魅了されたんです 全てが揃っていました 冒険であり 好奇心を満たし 想像力を掻き立て  
 And it was an experience that Hollywood couldn't give me.    	  それはハリウッドでも得られない  
 Because, you know, I could imagine a creature and we could  create a visual effect for it. But I couldn't imagine what I was seeing  out that window.    	  体験だったんです 私は生き物を想像し 特殊効果で 作り出せますが 窓の向こうのそれは  
 As we did some of our subsequent expeditions,  I was seeing creatures at hydrothermal vents  and sometimes things that I had never seen before,  sometimes things that no one had seen before,  that actually were not described by science  at the time that we saw them and imaged them.    	  想像すら出来ないものでした その後も探索を続けるにつれ 熱水噴出孔に住む生き物を見たり 私がそれまで見た事のないものや さらには誰一人見た事のないもの 当時の科学では説明されていない事象を 発見し 撮影しました  
 So, I was completely smitten by this,  and had to do more.    	  私はすっかり夢中になってしまい もう止められませんでした  
 And so, I actually made a kind of curious decision.    	  そこで私は奇妙な決断をしたんです  
 After the success of "Titanic,"  I said, "OK, I'm going to park my day job as a Hollywood movie maker,  and I'm going to go be a full-time explorer for a while."    	  「タイタニック」の成功の後で言いました 「ハリウッドの映画制作者という仕事は 一時休業だ しばらく探検家になるんだ」  
 And so, we started planning these  expeditions.    	  そして 探査計画を 練り始めました  
 And we wound up going to the Bismark,  and exploring it with robotic vehicles.    	  その成果として 戦艦ビスマルク号を ロボット潜水艇で探索しました  
 We went back to the Titanic wreck.    	  その後タイタニック号に戻り 今度は  
 We took little bots that we had created  that spooled a fiber optic.    	  光ファイバーを積んだ小型ロボットを 作り 持ち込んだのです  
 And the idea was to go in and do an interior  survey of that ship, which had never been done.    	  当時まだ謎に包まれていた 船内の調査をするためです  
 Nobody had ever looked inside the wreck. They didn't have the means to do it,  so we created technology to do it.    	  それまで手段が無く 誰も入れなかったので 私たちはその為の技術を開発したんです  
 of Titanic, sitting in a submersible,  and looking out at planks that look much like this,  where I knew that the band had played.    	  私は潜水艇に乗って タイタニック号の デッキにいました ちょうどこんな感じのステージがあり そこはあのバンドが演奏していた場所でした  
 And I'm flying a little robotic vehicle  through the corridor of the ship.    	  私は小型ロボット潜水艇を操縦し 船内の通路を進んでいました 私の心はそのロボットの中にありました 難破したタイタニック号の船内に  
 When I say, "I'm operating it,"  but my mind is in the vehicle.    	  本当に自分が潜入しているようでした そして私は かつてない 超現実的な  
 I felt like I was physically present  inside the shipwreck of Titanic.    	  デジャヴ 既視感を体験したんです ロボット潜水艇のライトが  
 And it was the most surreal kind  of deja vu experience I've ever had,  because I would know before I turned a corner  of the vehicle actually revealed it, because I had walked the set for months  And the set was based as an exact replica  on the blueprints of the ship.    	  通路の先を照らし出す前に 私には何が見えるかが分かったんです なぜなら 映画を撮影している時に セットの中を何ヶ月も歩いていたんですね そのセットはタイタニック号の設計図を 完全に再現していたんです  
 So, it was this absolutely remarkable experience.    	  これは本当に驚くべき体験でした  
 And it really made me realize that  the telepresence experience --  that you actually can have these robotic avatars,  then your consciousness is injected into the vehicle,  into this other form of existence.    	  このようなロボットアバターを使い 遠隔地の臨場感を経験すると 意識はそのアバターに乗り移り 形を変えて存続出来るのだと 気がついたのです  
 It was really, really quite profound.    	  もの凄く深い体験でした  
 And it may be a little bit of a glimpse as to what might be happening  some decades out  as we start to have cyborg bodies  for exploration or for other means  in many sort of  post-human futures  that I can imagine,  as a science fiction fan.    	  ひょっとすると 何十年後かに 人類が探検などの目的で サイボーグの体を持つようになって もたらされる世界を 私がSFファンとして 想像する 「人類後の世界」を 垣間見たのかも知れません  
 So, having done these expeditions,  and really beginning to appreciate what was down there,  such as at the deep ocean vents  where we had these amazing, amazing animals --  they're basically aliens right here on Earth.    	  これらの探索を行う事で 深海の素晴らしさを理解するようになりました 海底の熱水孔や そこに生きる不思議な生物の事です 彼らは地球に住むエイリアンのようなものです  
 They live in an environment of chemosynthesis.    	  化学合成によって生きているんです  
 They don't survive on sunlight-based  system the way we do.    	  光合成ベースの生態系では 生きていけないのです  
 And so, you're seeing animals that are living next to  a 500-degree-Centigrade water plumes.    	  摂氏500度もの水柱の 側で生きる動物を 目の当たりにしているんです  
 You think they can't possibly exist.    	  ありえないと思いませんか  
 At the same time  I was getting very interested in space science as well --  again, it's the science fiction influence, as a kid.    	  同時に私は 宇宙科学にも強い興味を持ちました これもまた 子供の頃のSFの影響でした  
 And I wound up getting involved with  the space community,  really involved with NASA,  sitting on the NASA advisory board,  planning actual space missions,  going to Russia, going through the pre-cosmonaut  biomedical protocols,  and all these sorts of things,  to actually go and fly to the international space station  with our 3D camera systems.    	  結局私は 宇宙関係の コミュニティーとつながりを持ち NASAとも関わるようになり 諮問委員会に参加し 実際の宇宙計画を立て ロシアで宇宙飛行前の 生体検査や いろいろなものに参加し 私たちの3Dカメラシステムと一緒に 実際に宇宙ステーションに 乗り込む計画もありました  
 And this was fascinating.    	  とても魅力的でした  
 But what I wound up doing was bringing space scientists  with us into the deep.    	  でも気がつくと 宇宙科学者達を 深海に案内していました  
 astrobiologists, planetary scientists,  people who were interested in these extreme environments --  taking them down to the vents, and letting them see,  and take samples and test instruments, and so on.    	  宇宙生物学者や惑星学者など 極限の環境に興味を持つ人々ですね 彼らを熱水孔まで連れて行き サンプルの採取や 機材のテストなどを 行ってもらいました  
 So, here we were making documentary films,  but actually doing science,  and actually doing space science.    	  それはドキュメンタリーの撮影でありながら 実際には宇宙科学に 取り組んでいたのです  
 I'd completely closed the loop  between being the science fiction fan,  and doing this stuff for real.    	  私は完全に輪を閉じました 子供の頃に SFファンだった少年が それを現実のものにしているのです  
 And you know, along the way in this journey  of discovery,  I learned a lot.    	  そしてこの発見の 旅の途中で 多くを学びました  
 I learned a lot about science. But I also learned a lot  about leadership.    	  科学についてもたくさん学びましたが リーダーシップについても学びました  
 Now you think director has got to be a leader,  leader of, captain of the ship, and all that sort of thing.    	  皆さんは監督というのはリーダーであり 船の船長のようなものだと思うでしょう 私はこれらの探査活動を行うまで  
 I didn't really learn about leadership until I did these expeditions.    	  リーダーシップについて理解していませんでした  
 Because I had to, at a certain point, say,  "What am I doing out here?    	  ある時点で こう思ってしまったのです 「自分はここで何をしているんだ？  
 Why am I doing this? What do I get out of it?"    	  なぜやっているんだ？何を得られるんだ？」  
 We don't make money at these damn shows.    	  この手の見せ物はお金になりません  
 We barely break even. There is no fame in it.    	  利益にならず 名声も得られない  
 People sort of think I went away  between "Titanic" and "Avatar" and was buffing my nails  someplace, sitting at the beach.    	  人々は 私が「タイタニック」と 「アバター」の間 どこかのリゾートで 爪でも磨いていると 思っていました  
 Made all these films, made all these documentary films  for a very limited audience.    	  これらのドキュメンタリーを撮りましたが とても限られた観客向けのものです  
 No fame, no glory, no money. What are you doing?    	  名声も栄誉もお金もない 自分は何をしているんだ？  
 You're doing it for the task itself,  for the challenge --  and the ocean is the most challenging environment there is --  for the thrill of discovery,  and for that strange bond that happens  when a small group of people form a tightly knit team.    	  まさにその任務のため その挑戦のためなのです 海ほど挑戦的な環境は無いでしょう そして発見のスリルと チームが結束したときに出来る 奇妙な「絆」のために行動するのです  
 Because we would do these things with 10, 12 people,  working for years at a time,  sometimes at sea for two, three months at a time.    	  これらの仕事は10人ほどのチームで 何年間にも及びます 時には洋上で2、3ヶ月も過ごします  
 And in that bond, you realize  that the most important thing  is the respect that you have for them  and that they have for you, that you've done a task  that you can't explain to someone else.    	  この絆の中で 最も重要な事は お互いに対する敬意であり それぞれが 他の誰にも説明不可能な 課題を克服しているんだという 尊敬の念だと 気づきました  
 When you come back to the shore and you say,  "We had to do this, and the fiber optic, and the attentuation,  and the this and the that,  all the technology of it, and the difficulty,  the human-performance aspects of working at sea,"  you can't explain it to people. It's that thing that  maybe cops have, or people in combat that have gone through something together  and they know they can never explain it.    	  陸に上がっては 言うんです 光ファイバーがどうだの 減衰がどうだの あれやらこれやら その技術的側面と 難しさ 洋上で働く事による人間的側面 うまく説明出来ないのですが 警官か 戦場で共に戦い抜いた仲間なら この意味が分かると思います  
 Creates a bond, creates a bond of respect.    	  尊敬の絆が生まれるのです  
 So, when I came back to make my next movie,  which was "Avatar,"  I tried to apply that same principle of leadership,  which is that you respect your team,  and you earn their respect in return.    	  次の映画を撮るために戻ったとき 「アバター」だったのですが 同じリーダーシップ論を持ち込み チームを尊敬し 彼らからも 尊敬を得られるよう努めました  
 And it really changed the dynamic.    	  これは本当に原動力を変えました  
 So, here I was again with a small team,  in uncharted territory,  doing "Avatar," coming up with new technology  that didn't exist before.    	  私は再び小さなチームと共に 未開拓の分野で それまで存在しなかった技術を使い 「アバター」の制作にかかりました  
 Tremendously exciting.    	  もの凄くエキサイティングで  
 Tremendously challenging.    	  とてつもない挑戦でした  
 And we became a family, over a four-and-half year period.    	  そして4年半の歳月を経て 家族になりました  
 And it completely changed how I do movies.    	  私の映画制作は完全に変わりました  
 So, people have commented on how, "Well, you know,  you brought back the ocean organisms  and put them on the planet of Pandora."    	  人々は 私がうまい事 海の生物を 惑星パンドラに 当てはめたと言いますが  
 To me, it was more of a fundamental way of doing business,  the process itself, that changed as a result of that.    	  私にとっては 変わったのは 基本的な仕事の進め方であり 結果的にこうなったのです  
 So, what can we synthesize out of all this?    	  さて ここから何を導き出せるでしょうか？  
 You know, what are the lessons learned?    	  教訓は何でしょうか  
 Well, I think number one is  curiosity.    	  まず第一に 好奇心です  
 It's the most powerful thing you own.    	  あなたが持つ最もパワフルなものです  
 Imagination is a force  that can actually manifest a reality.    	  想像力は実際に 現実を呼び起こす力があります  
 And the respect of your team  is more important than all the  laurels in the world.    	  そして チームからの尊敬は 世界中のどんな栄誉よりも 重要なのです  
 I have young filmmakers  come up to me and say, "Give me some advice for doing this."    	  若い映画制作者が アドバイスが欲しいと言ってきました  
 And I say, "Don't put limitations on yourself.    	  こう言いました 「自分に限界を設けるな  
 Other people will do that for you -- don't do it to yourself,  don't bet against yourself,  and take risks."    	  それは周りがやる事だ 自分じゃない 自分で出来ないと思うな 進んでリスクを取れ」と  
 NASA has this phrase that they like:  "Failure is not an option."    	  NASAの好きなこんな文句があります 「失敗は選択肢にない」  
 But failure has to be an option  in art and in exploration, because it's a leap of faith.    	  でも 芸術や探求においては 選択肢で あるべきです 信じて飛び込むべきなんです  
 And no important endeavor  that required innovation  was done without risk.    	  革新的な試みは全て リスクを承知で 実行されてきたのです  
 You have to be willing to take those risks.    	  このリスクは 自ら引き受けるべきです  
 So, that's the thought I would leave you with,  is that in whatever you're doing,  failure is an option,  but fear is not. Thank you.    	  最後に申し上げたいのは 何をするにしても 失敗は選択肢であり 選択肢にないのは「恐れ」なんです ありがとう  
 If I can leave you with one big idea today,  it's that the whole of the data in which we consume  is greater that the sum of the parts,  and instead of thinking about information overload,  we can use information so that patterns pop  and we can see trends that would otherwise be invisible.    	  今日私が大きなアイデアを一つだけ お伝えできるとしたら、それは データの全体から我々が得られるものは、 部分の和よりも大きいということです。 情報過多ではなく、どうすれば 通常見えていないパターン、 傾向を見つけることが出来るのか  
 So what we're looking at right here is a typical mortality chart  organized by age.    	  考えてみて下さい。 今ご覧頂いているのは典型的な 年齢別死亡率のグラフです。  
 This tool that I'm using here is a little experiment.    	  今使っているツールは実験段階のもので、  
 It's called Pivot, and with Pivot what I can do  is I can choose to filter in one particular cause of deaths -- say, accidents.    	  Pivotです。これを使えばある特定の 死因のデータだけ抽出することができます。例えば事故。  
 And, right away, I see there's a different pattern that emerges.    	  そしてすぐ別の傾向があることを確認できます。  
 This is because, in the mid-area here,  people are at their most active,  and over here they're at their most frail.    	  理由はここ、中ほどでは 人々は最も活動的で、次に こちら側では最も体が弱いからです。  
 We can step back out again  and then reorganize the data by cause of death,  seeing that circulatory diseases and cancer  are the usual suspects, but not for everyone.    	  前に戻って データを死因で並べなおすこともできます 循環器系疾患とガンが最も高いですが 全員に対してというわけではありません。  
 If we go ahead and we filter by age --  say 40 years or less --  we see that accidents are actually  the greatest cause that people have to be worried about.    	  さらに年齢で絞って 40歳以下を見てみましょう 事故がその年代の人々にとって 最も注意すべき死因だとわかりますね。  
 And if you drill into that, it's especially the case for men.    	  特に男性が要注意であることもわかります。  
 So you get the idea  that viewing information, viewing data in this way,  is a lot like swimming  in a living information info-graphic.    	  さて皆さんお分かりいただけたと思います 情報やデータをこの様に眺めるのは 画像主体の情報の中を 泳いでいるみたいでしょ。  
 And if we can do this for raw data,  why not do it for content as well?    	  そして生のデータにこんなことができるなら コンテンツにもやってみませんか？  
 So what we have right here  is the cover of every single Sports Illustrated ever produced.    	  そこでここにあるのは 今までに作られてきた スポーツ イラストレイテッド誌の表紙です。  
 It's all here; it's all on the web.    	  すべてがここウェブ上にあります。  
 You can go back to your rooms and try this after my talk.    	  公演後皆さんの部屋でも同じことは出来ます。  
 With Pivot, you can drill into a decade.    	  Pivotで特定の10年分に絞り込むことができます。  
 You can drill into a particular year.    	  ある1年に絞り込むこともできます。  
 You can jump right into a specific issue.    	  あらゆる巻に即座に戻れます。  
 So I'm looking at this; I see the athletes  that have appeared in this issue, the sports.    	  これを見てみましょう。この号に 掲載のあったアスリートが全部表示されています。  
 I'm a Lance Armstrong fan, so I'll go ahead and I'll click on that,  which reveals, for me, all the issues  in which Lance Armstrong's been a part of.    	  ランス アームストロングのファンなのでこれをクリックしてみましょう。 するとこの様にランス アームストロングが 取り上げられた全ての号が抽出されます。  
   Now, if I want to just kind of take a peek at these,  "Well, what about taking a look at all of cycling?"    	  （拍手） ちょっと上の方を眺めてみたくなったとしましょう 「サイクリングについての記事を見てみようかな」  
 So I can step back, and expand on that.    	  と思うかもしれません。 一歩下がって拡大しましょう。  
 And I see Greg LeMond now.    	  するとグレッグ レモンが出てきます。  
 And so you get the idea that when you  navigate over information this way --  going narrower, broader,  backing in, backing out --  you're not searching, you're not browsing.    	  この様に情報を絞り込んだり 広げたり、戻ったりと情報を 自由に操作することは、単なる 検索やブラウジングではないと お分かり頂けたと思います。  
 You're doing something that's actually a little bit different.    	  これは実際少し異なるものなんです。  
 It's in between, and we think it changes  the way information can be used.    	  これは検索と閲覧の中間で、我々の 情報の利用方を変えてくれると思っています。  
 So I want to extrapolate on this idea a bit  with something that's a little bit crazy.    	  このアイデアを拡張して ちょっと極端なことをやってみましょう。  
 What we're done here is we've taken every single Wikipedia page  and we reduced it down to a little summary.    	  私たちはウィキペディアの全てのページを それぞれ小さな要約にまとめました。  
 So the summary consists of just a little synopsis  and an icon to indicate the topical area that it comes from.    	  要約は短い概要と、それが属する トピックを表すアイコンからなっています。  
 I'm only showing the top 500  most popular Wikipedia pages right here.    	  今ここでは最も人気のある 500ページしか載せていません。  
 But even in this limited view,  we can do a lot of things.    	  しかしこの限られた範囲でも、 色々なことが出来ます。  
 Right away, we get a sense of what are the topical domains  that are most popular on Wikipedia.    	  直ぐに、ウィキペディア上で人気のある トピックを把握することができますね。  
 I'm going to go ahead and select government.    	  今から「政治」を選んでみます。  
 Now, having selected government,  I can now see that the Wikipedia categories  that most frequently correspond to that  are Time magazine People of the Year.    	  さて「政治」を選んでみると、 この様にウィキペディアのカテゴリーで 最も多く一致するのは雑誌Timeの Person of the Yearであると分かります。  
 So this is really important because this is an insight that was not contained within any one Wikipedia page.    	  これはウィキペディアのどのページにも含まれていない  
 It's only possible to see that insight  when you step back and look at all of them.    	  情報ですから、とても重要なのです。 一歩下がって全てを見渡してみた時  
 Looking at one of these particular summaries,  I can then drill into the concept of  Time magazine Person of the Year,  bringing up all of them.    	  初めてこの様な見方が可能となるのです。 要約の1つを見てみましょう そこからPerson of the Yearの カテゴリに進み、それに 属するもの全てを表示できます。  
 So looking at these people,  I can see that the majority come from government;  some have come from natural sciences;  some, fewer still, have come from business --  there's my boss --  and one has come from music.    	  そこで彼らを見てみて下さい、 多くの人は政治関係だとわかりますね。 何人かは自然科学関係ですね。 さらに少ないですが、ビジネス関係の人もいます。 私のボスもいます。 それから音楽方面の人が1人います。  
 And interestingly enough,  Bono is also a TED Prize winner.    	  そして面白いことに、ボノは TED Prize受賞者でもあります。この様に  
 So we can go, jump, and take a look at all the TED Prize winners.    	  自由にTED Prize受賞者を全員見渡せます。  
 So you see, we're navigating the web for the first time  as if it's actually a web, not from page-to-page,  but at a higher level of abstraction.    	  ご覧頂いたように、我々は初めてwebを ページからページではなく、一つのwebとして 高い抽象レベルでナビゲートしているのです。  
 And so I want to show you one other thing  that may catch you a little bit by surprise.    	  そこでもう一つ 皆さんが 驚くだろうものを お見せしたいと思います。  
 I'm just showing the New York Times website here.    	  ここにNew York Timesのホームページがあります。  
 So Pivot, this application --  I don't want to call it a browser; it's really not a browser,  but you can view web pages with it --  and we bring that zoomable technology  to every single web page like this.    	  そこでこのアプリケーションPivot--これを ブラウザーとは呼びたくないです。違いますから。 しかし勿論ウェブの閲覧は可能ですけど-- 私たちはこの様にズーム技術をそれぞれの webページに使えるようにしました。  
 So I can step back,  pop right back into a specific section.    	  一歩下がって眺め、目的の部分に 飛び込むことができます。  
 Now the reason why this is important is because,  by virtue of just viewing web pages in this way,  I can look at my entire browsing history  in the exact same way.    	  さてこれが重要な理由としては、 この様にウェブを閲覧することによって 閲覧履歴全体を全く同じように 見ることができるからです。  
 So I can drill into what I've done  over specific time frames.    	  だから特定の時間帯にしたことを 掘り下げることができます。  
 Here, in fact, is the state  of all the demo that I just gave.    	  実際ここには今日実演してきた ページの履歴が見えますね。  
 And I can sort of replay some stuff that I was looking at earlier today.    	  すると先ほどお見せしたものをリプレイすることもできます。  
 And, if I want to step back and look at everything,  I can slice and dice my history,  perhaps by my search history --  here, I was doing some nepotistic searching,  looking for Bing, over here for Live Labs Pivot.    	  一歩下がって全て見たいと思ったら、 履歴をスライス&ダイスすることができ、 例えば検索履歴を取り出すことができます。 私は身内びいきの 検索をしていますね。  
 And from these, I can drill into the web page  and just launch them again.    	  その履歴から、すぐに元をたどり 再起動することができます。  
 It's one metaphor repurposed multiple times,  and in each case it makes the whole greater  than the sum of the parts with the data.    	  １つのメタファが形を変えて何度も 現れています。すなわち全体というのは 部分の和よりも大きいということです。  
 So right now, in this world,  we think about data as being this curse.    	  現在我々は世界に溢れかえるデータを 悪と捉えています。  
 We talk about the curse of information overload.    	  情報過多は災いであり  
 We talk about drowning in data.    	  情報に溺れていると言われています。  
 What if we can actually turn that upside down  and turn the web upside down,  so that instead of navigating from one thing to the next,  we get used to the habit of being able to go from many things to many things,  and then being able to see the patterns  that were otherwise hidden?    	  それをひっくり返せないでしょうか webというものをひっくり返して 一つの物から次の物への単純な移動ではなく 多くの情報から多くの情報へと行き来することに慣れたなら それまで見えなかったパターンを 見いだせるようになるでしょう。  
 If we can do that, then instead of being trapped in data,  we might actually extract information.    	  これが可能ならば、データに埋もれるのではなく 適切な情報抽出が可能かもしれません。  
 And, instead of dealing just with information,  we can tease out knowledge.    	  そうすれば単なる情報処理ではなく、 知識を引き出すことができます。  
 And if we get the knowledge, then maybe even there's wisdom to be found.    	  その知識が引き出せるなら、知恵だって見いだせるかもしれません。  
 So with that, I thank you.    	  以上です。ありがとう。  
 Everybody talks about happiness these days.    	  最近 幸福について話す人が多いですね  
 with "happiness" in the title published in the last five years  and they gave up after about 40, and there were many more.    	  過去5年に出版され タイトルに“幸福”が 入っている本を ある人に数えてもらったところ あまりの量で 40冊ほどで諦めてしまいました  
 There is a huge wave of interest in happiness,  among researchers.    	  研究者たちの幸福に対する興味の高まりは かなりのものです  
 There is a lot of happiness coaching.    	  幸福のコーチングもたくさん行われ  
 Everybody would like to make people happier.    	  皆に幸福になってもらいたいことがわかります  
 But in spite of all this flood of work,  there are several cognitive traps  that sort of make it almost impossible to think straight  about happiness.    	  しかし そのような努力があるにも関わらず 幸福について 明瞭に考えることを ほぼ不可能にしてしまう認知の罠が 幾つかあります  
 And my talk today will be mostly about these cognitive traps.    	  今日は この認知の罠を取り上げます  
 This applies to laypeople thinking about their own happiness,  and it applies to scholars thinking about happiness,  because it turns out we're just as messed up as anybody else is.    	  これは自らの幸福を願う一般の人にも 幸福を追究する学者にも当てはまります なぜなら 誰もが混乱した状態にいるからです  
 The first of these traps  is a reluctance to admit complexity.    	  罠の一つは 複雑さを認めることへの抵抗感にあります  
 It turns out that the word "happiness"  is just not a useful word anymore,  because we apply it to too many different things.    	  幸福という言葉は もはや役立つ言葉ではない― という事が明らかになりました この言葉を様々な事に あてはめすぎるからです  
 I think there is one particular meaning to which we might restrict it,  but by and large,  this is something that we'll have to give up  and we'll have to adopt the more complicated view  of what well-being is.    	  この言葉には 特定の意味合いがありますが 概して 狭い意味に 限定することは諦めて 幸福な状態とは何か もっと複雑な見方を しなくてはいけないのです  
 The second trap is a confusion between experience and memory;  basically, it's between being happy in your life,  and being happy about your life  or happy with your life.    	  二つめの罠は 体験と記憶を混同してしまうことです 生活の中で見いだす幸福と 自分の人生の幸福度合い この違いです  
 And those are two very different concepts,  and they're both lumped in the notion of happiness.    	  この二つは非常に異なる概念ですが どちらも幸福という一つの観念にまとめられがちです  
 And the third is the focusing illusion,  and it's the unfortunate fact that we can't think about any circumstance  that affects well-being  without distorting its importance.    	  三つめは錯覚に焦点を置くこと 幸福の状態を左右する状況を ゆがめて考えてしまうのは 残念なことです  
 I mean, this is a real cognitive trap.    	  これは まさに認知の罠です  
 There's just no way of getting it right.    	  正確に理解する方法が無いのです  
 Now, I'd like to start with an example  of somebody who had a question-and-answer session after one of my lectures reported a story,  and that was a story --  He said he'd been listening to a symphony,  and it was absolutely glorious music  and at the very end of the recording,  there was a dreadful screeching sound.    	  例を出してみましょう 私の講義の後におこなった質疑応答で ある方がこんな話をしました 彼は交響曲を聴いていて その音楽に聞き惚れていたところ その曲の終わりに 耳をつんざく音が入っていました  
 And then he added, really quite emotionally,  it ruined the whole experience.    	  彼はかなり感情的に 曲が台無しになった と言いました  
 But it hadn't.    	  でも 台無しになったのは  
 What it had ruined were the memories of the experience.    	  曲ではなく その経験の記憶です  
 He had had the experience.    	  彼は素晴らしい曲を  
 He had had 20 minutes of glorious music.    	  20分聴いていたのに  
 They counted for nothing  because he was left with a memory;  the memory was ruined,  and the memory was all that he had gotten to keep.    	  その価値がなくなったのは 台無しになった記憶が 残ったからです 彼に残ったのは記憶しかありません  
 What this is telling us, really,  is that we might be thinking of ourselves and of other people  in terms of two selves.    	  この話から 我々が 自らを二つの自己として 考えているらしいとわかります  
 There is an experiencing self,  who lives in the present  and knows the present,  is capable of re-living the past,  but basically it has only the present.    	  経験の自己― これは 現在を生き 現在を経験し 過去にも戻れる自己です でも基本的には現在しかありません  
 It's the experiencing self that the doctor approaches --  you know, when the doctor asks,  "Does it hurt now when I touch you here?"    	  例えば 医師が “ここを触ったら痛みますか？” と 尋ねる相手は 経験の自己です  
 And then there is a remembering self,  and the remembering self is the one that keeps score,  and maintains the story of our life,  and it's the one that the doctor approaches  in asking the question,  "How have you been feeling lately?"    	  そして 記憶の自己というのがあります 記憶の自己とは 記録を残し 人生の物語を紡ぎます 医師が尋ねる質問を 例に出すと “最近の調子はどうですか？”  
 or "How was your trip to Albania?" or something like that.    	  “旅行はいかがでしたか？” なんて質問です  
 Those are two very different entities,  the experiencing self and the remembering self,  and getting confused between them is part of the mess  about the notion of happiness.    	  この二つは まったく異なるもので “経験の自己”と“記憶の自己”を 混同してしまうのは 幸福の観念に見られる 混乱なのです  
 Now, the remembering self  is a storyteller.    	  記憶の自己は 語り手です  
 And that really starts with a basic response of our memories --  it starts immediately.    	  我々の記憶の基本的な反応で すぐに動き出します  
 We don't only tell stories when we set out to tell stories.    	  話をするとき 我々が単純に語っているのではなく  
 Our memory tells us stories,  that is, what we get to keep from our experiences  is a story.    	  記憶が物語るのです 要は経験から 引き継がれたものが 話になるのです  
 And let me begin with one example.    	  その一例を挙げてみます  
 This is an old study.    	  昔行われた研究で  
 Those are actual patients undergoing a painful procedure.    	  大腸内視鏡検査を受けた実際の患者から得たデータです  
 I won't go into detail. It's no longer painful these days,  but it was painful when this study was run in the 1990s.    	  この検査は今となっては痛みを伴いませんが 研究が行われた90年代には痛みを伴う検査でした  
 They were asked to report on their pain every 60 seconds.    	  患者は60秒ごとに 痛みの度合いを報告するように言われ  
 Here are two patients,  those are their recordings.    	  これは二人の患者と 彼らの痛みを記録したものです  
 And you are asked, "Who of them suffered more?"    	  この二人のうち より苦しんだのは  
 And it's a very easy question.    	  どちらかと聞かれたら  
 Clearly, Patient B suffered more --  his colonoscopy was longer,  and every minute of pain that Patient A had,  Patient B had, and more.    	  明らかに それは患者Bですね 彼の検査時間のほうが長く 患者Aが毎分感じた痛み以上に 患者Bは痛みを感じました  
 But now there is another question:  "How much did these patients think they suffered?"    	  さて 別の質問をします 患者自身に どれだけ苦しんだと思うかと尋ねると  
 And here is a surprise.    	  驚くことに  
 The surprise is that Patient A  had a much worse memory of the colonoscopy  than Patient B.    	  患者Bよりも 患者Aのほうが より嫌な記憶として 覚えていたのです  
 The stories of the colonoscopies were different,  and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends.    	  二人の検査の話は異なっていました なぜなら その話の一番重要な部分は 検査の終わり方なのです  
 And neither of these stories is very inspiring or great --  but one of them is this distinct ...   but one of them is distinctly worse than the other.    	  どちらの話も 心を打たれるような内容ではありませんが 一方は もう片方よりも 明らかに悲惨なものなのです  
 And the one that is worse  is the one where pain was at its peak at the very end;  it's a bad story.    	  より嫌な記憶として語られた方は まさに終わるときに痛みがピークを迎えていました 本当に悲惨なものです  
 How do we know that?    	  対象となった患者には  
 Because we asked these people after their colonoscopy,  and much later, too,  "How bad was the whole thing, in total?"    	  検査後と かなり時間が経ってから インタビューしました 検査全体の印象を評価してもらうと  
 And it was much worse for A than for B, in memory.    	  患者Bよりも 患者Aが より大変だったと答えました  
 Now this is a direct conflict  between the experiencing self and the remembering self.    	  これは経験の自己と 記憶の自己の間で起こる はっきりとした矛盾です  
 From the point of view of the experiencing self,  clearly, B had a worse time.    	  経験の自己の視点で見ると 患者Bのほうが大変だったのは明らかです  
 Now, what you could do with Patient A,  and we actually ran clinical experiments,  and it has been done, and it does work --  you could actually extend the colonoscopy of Patient A  by just keeping the tube in without jiggling it too much.    	  患者Aにどうすべきだったか 実際に行った臨床実験で 効果が確かめられているのですが 患者Aのチューブをそれほど動かさず 大腸内視鏡検査を長引かせます  
 That will cause the patient  to suffer, but just a little  and much less than before.    	  そうすることで患者は痛みを感じますが その痛みは ほんの少しで それまでに比べて 痛みは激減します  
 And if you do that for a couple of minutes,  you have made the experiencing self  of Patient A worse off,  and you have the remembering self of Patient A  a lot better off,  because now you have endowed Patient A  with a better story  about his experience.    	  これを数分やれば 患者Aの経験の自己には つらい思いをさせますが 記憶の自己には ずっとましな処置です なぜなら 患者Aに与えた 経験の物語は ましなものになっているからです  
 What defines a story?    	  物語を形作るのは何でしょう  
 And that is true of the stories  that memory delivers for us,  and it's also true of the stories that we make up.    	  これは記憶を通して 我々が思い出す話や 我々が作り上げる話にも共通したことです  
 What defines a story are changes,  significant moments and endings.    	  話を明確にするものは 変化であり 決定的な瞬間であり 結末なのです  
 Endings are very, very important  and, in this case, the ending dominated.    	  結末は非常に重要な役割を果たしていて この患者のケースでは検査の締めくくりが左右したのです  
 Now, the experiencing self  lives its life continuously.    	  さて 経験の自己の 人生には切れ目もなく  
 It has moments of experience, one after the other.    	  どんな瞬間でも 次から次へと経験をしています  
 And you can ask: What happens to these moments?    	  “この瞬間”の行方を問うと  
 And the answer is really straightforward:  They are lost forever.    	  答えは非常に簡単で 永久に失われます  
 I mean, most of the moments of our life --  and I calculated, you know, the psychological present  is said to be about three seconds long;  that means that, you know,  in a life there are about 600 million of them;  in a month, there are about 600,000 --  most of them don't leave a trace.    	  人生における時間の大半です 心理的現在は 約3秒だと 言われており その3秒は 人生で約6億回 月に約60万回もある計算になりますが ほとんどが形跡を残しません  
 Most of them are completely ignored  by the remembering self.    	  ほとんどが記憶の自己に 無視されてしまいます  
 And yet, somehow you get the sense  that they should count,  that what happens during these moments of experience  is our life.    	  それでもどういうわけか 今この瞬間には価値があり そこで起きている事こそが 人生であると感じるのです  
 It's the finite resource that we're spending  while we're on this earth.    	  我々が生きる間に体験できる― 限られたものであり  
 And how to spend it  would seem to be relevant,  but that is not the story  that the remembering self keeps for us.    	  人生をいかに過ごすかということが 価値を持つように感じますが これは記憶の自己が 残す話とは違うのです  
 So we have the remembering self  and the experiencing self,  and they're really quite distinct.    	  記憶の自己と 経験の自己とは まったく別物なのです  
 The biggest difference between them  is in the handling of time.    	  一番の違いは 時間の扱い方です  
 From the point of view of the experiencing self,  if you have a vacation,  and the second week is just as good as the first,  then the two-week vacation  is twice as good as the one-week vacation.    	  経験の自己の視点で見てみましょう 休暇に出かけるとします 1週目も2週目も 同じくらい楽しければ 2週間の休暇の充足感は 1週間の休暇の2倍です  
 That's not the way it works at all for the remembering self.    	  記憶の自己はこのようには働きません  
 For the remembering self, a two-week vacation  is barely better than the one-week vacation  because there are no new memories added.    	  2週間の休暇は 1週間の休暇と さほど変わらないのです なぜなら新しく加わる記憶はなく  
 You have not changed the story.    	  話自体を変化させる事がないからです  
 And in this way,  time is actually the critical variable  that distinguishes a remembering self  from an experiencing self;  time has very little impact on the story.    	  このように 時間は記憶の自己と 経験の自己を区別する― 重要なポイントです この休暇の例に 時間はあまり影響力はありません  
 Now, the remembering self does more  than remember and tell stories.    	  記憶の自己は 話を記憶し 語ること以上の 働きがあります  
 It is actually the one that makes decisions  because, if you have a patient who has had, say,  two colonoscopies with two different surgeons  and is deciding which of them to choose,  then the one that chooses  is the one that has the memory that is less bad,  and that's the surgeon that will be chosen.    	  実際に 決断をするのは記憶の自己です 例えば 大腸内視鏡検査を２回 二人の医師から受けた患者に どちらかの医師を選んでもらうとすると その患者は 記憶の中で ましだった方の 医師を選びます  
 The experiencing self  has no voice in this choice.    	  この選択をする際 経験の自己は関わっていません  
 We actually don't choose between experiences,  we choose between memories of experiences.    	  通常 我々は経験から選ぶ事はせず 記憶から選び出します  
 And even when we think about the future,  we don't think of our future normally as experiences.    	  未来のことを考える時でさえ 経験として考える事は 普通ありません  
 We think of our future  as anticipated memories.    	  先を見越した記憶として 未来を見ています  
 And basically you can look at this,  you know, as a tyranny of the remembering self,  and you can think of the remembering self  sort of dragging the experiencing self  through experiences that  the experiencing self doesn't need.    	  これは記憶の自己による 専制政治と考えてください 記憶の自己が決めて 経験の自己に対して 望んでいたわけでもない事も 経験させるのです  
 I have that sense that  when we go on vacations  this is very frequently the case;  that is, we go on vacations,  in the service of our remembering self.    	  私が感じるのは 我々が休暇に出かけるのは ―大半のケースに言えますが― 休暇とは 記憶の自己のために 行くものだという気がします  
 And this is a bit hard to justify I think.    	  これを正当化するのは少し難しいのですが  
 I mean, how much do we consume our memories?    	  我々は記憶をどれだけ思い返すでしょうか？  
 That is one of the explanations  that is given for the dominance  of the remembering self.    	  これは 記憶の自己が 支配している― 説明の一つです  
 And when I think about that, I think about a vacation  we had in Antarctica a few years ago,  which was clearly the best vacation I've ever had,  and I think of it relatively often,  relative to how much I think of other vacations.    	  この事を考える時 数年前の南極旅行を思い出します それは今までで最高と言える旅行で その他の旅行に比べて 思い出す回数も多いのです  
 And I probably have consumed  my memories of that three-week trip, I would say,  for about 25 minutes in the last four years.    	  その3週間の旅行を 過去4年のうちに思い出したのは 25分程度でしょう  
 with the 600 pictures in it,  I would have spent another hour.    	  もしも 600枚の写真を 見返したとしたら 1時間追加されるくらいです  
 Now, that is three weeks,  and that is at most an hour and a half.    	  3週間の旅行に対し せいぜい1時間半の記憶なので  
 There seems to be a discrepancy.    	  何となく不釣り合いです 私は平均的な人ほど  
 Now, I may be a bit extreme, you know,  in how little appetite I have for consuming memories,  there is a genuine question:  Why do we put so much weight on memory  relative to the weight that we put on experiences?    	  記憶を思い返すことをしないのかもしれませんが もっと頻繁に記憶にアクセスしたとしても 真の疑問が残ります なぜ経験と比べて 記憶に重きを置くのでしょうか？  
 So I want you to think  about a thought experiment.    	  ここで ある思考実験をしてみましょう  
 Imagine that for your next vacation,  you know that at the end of the vacation  all your pictures will be destroyed,  and you'll get an amnesic drug  so that you won't remember anything.    	  皆さんの次の休暇で 休暇の最後になって 全ての写真が削除されるとします 皆さんは記憶喪失の薬を飲まされ 旅行の記憶はゼロになります  
 Now, would you choose the same vacation?   And if you would choose a different vacation,  there is a conflict between your two selves,  and you need to think about how to adjudicate that conflict,  and it's actually not at all obvious, because  if you think in terms of time,  then you get one answer,  and if you think in terms of memories,  you might get another answer.    	  それでも その休暇を選ぶでしょうか？　 もし別の休暇にするならば 二つの自己が対立しているので その対立をどのように解決するか考える必要がありますが 実際のところ わかりづらいんです 時間を優先すれば ある答えが出てくるでしょうし 記憶を優先すれば 別の答えが出てくるかもしれません  
 Why do we pick the vacations we do  is a problem that confronts us  with a choice between the two selves.    	  なぜ その休暇を選んでいるかという― 二つの自己の間にある選択肢は 我々が直面する問題です  
 Now, the two selves  bring up two notions of happiness.    	  二つの自己は 二つの 幸福の観念をもたらします  
 There are really two concepts of happiness  that we can apply, one per self.    	  二つの自己に対して適用できる― 幸福の観念がひとつずつあるのです  
 So you can ask: How happy is the experiencing self?    	  そこで出てくる質問は “経験の自己はどれだけ幸せなのか？”  
 And then you would ask: How happy are the moments  in the experiencing self's life?    	  そして “経験の自己の人生において どれだけ幸せを感じているのか？”  
 And they're all -- happiness for moments  is a fairly complicated process.    	  幸福に感じる瞬間とは 非常に複雑なプロセスです  
 What are the emotions that can be measured?    	  測定できる感情とは何でしょうか？  
 of the happiness of the experiencing self over time.    	  経験の自己が感じる幸福と 時間の関係性は  
 If you ask for the happiness of the remembering self,  it's a completely different thing.    	  わかっていただけたと思います もし 記憶の自己の幸福を尋ねるとしたら それはまた別物です  
 This is not about how happily a person lives.    	  これは ある人がどれだけ幸せに暮らしているか ということではなく  
 It is about how satisfied or pleased the person is  when that person thinks about her life.    	  その人が自分の人生を考えたときに どれだけ満足しているか ということです  
 Very different notion.    	  かなり違う観念ですね  
 Anyone who doesn't distinguish those notions  is going to mess up the study of happiness,  and I belong to a crowd of students of well-being,  who've been messing up the study of happiness for a long time  in precisely this way.    	  この観念の違いがわからなければ 幸福の研究はうまくいきません 私は まさにこんな感じに 長い間 幸福の研究がうまくいかずにいる― 学者の１人です  
 happiness of the experiencing self  and the satisfaction of the remembering self  has been recognized in recent years,  and there are now efforts to measure the two separately.    	  経験の自己の幸福と 記憶の自己の満足感が 違うという事実は 近年 気づかれるようになってきました 現在では 二つを隔てて測る努力もされています  
 The Gallup Organization has a world poll  where more than half a million people  have been asked questions  about what they think of their life  and about their experiences,  and there have been other efforts along those lines.    	  ギャラップは 50万人を対象に 世界中で世論調査を行い 自分の人生と経験を どう思っているか アンケートを行いました そして それに沿った形で 他の調査も進んできました  
 So in recent years, we have begun to learn  about the happiness of the two selves.    	  近年では 二つの自己に絡んだ幸福に関して 解明し始めたところです  
 And the main lesson I think that we have learned  is they are really different.    	  我々が学んだ主なことは 二つがまったく別物だということです  
 You can know how satisfied somebody is with their life,  and that really doesn't teach you much  about how happily they're living their life,  and vice versa.    	  ある人の人生の満足度を測る事はできても そこから その人が どれだけ人生を幸せに過ごしているかはわかりません 反対のことも言えます  
 Just to give you a sense of the correlation,  the correlation is about .5.    	  その相関性を示してみます 相関性は約0.5です  
 What that means is if you met somebody,  and you were told, "Oh his father is six feet tall,"  how much would you know about his height?    	  例えば 父の身長が180cmだと ある人が言ったとしても 彼自身の身長に関しては何もわかりませんね  
 Well, you would know something about his height,  but there's a lot of uncertainty.    	  多少の目安にはなりますが はっきりしたことはわかりません  
 You have that much uncertainty.    	  それくらい不確かだと思ってください  
 If I tell you that somebody ranked their life eight on a scale of ten,  you have a lot of uncertainty  about how happy they are  with their experiencing self.    	  ある人が 自分の人生は10点満点中8点だと言ったとしても どれだけ経験の自己が 幸せなのか 推しはかることはできません  
 So the correlation is low.    	  ですから相関関係は低いのです  
 We know something about what controls satisfaction of the happiness self.    	  幸福に対する満足度を支配する要素は  
 We know that money is very important,  goals are very important.    	  わかっています お金は大切ですし 目標も大切  
 We know that happiness is mainly  being satisfied with people that we like,  spending time with people that we like.    	  幸福とは主に 好きな人と共に 満足することであり 好きな人と時間を過ごすことです  
 There are other pleasures, but this is dominant.    	  他にも考えられますが これが支配的です  
 So if you want to maximize the happiness of the two selves,  doing very different things.    	  ですから 二つの自己の幸福度を強めたい場合は まったく異なる事柄を  
 The bottom line of what I've said here  is that we really should not think of happiness  as a substitute for well-being.    	  する事になるでしょう 要は 幸福は心身ともに健全でいることと 同じ事だと考えるべきではないのです  
 It is a completely different notion.    	  二つはまったく違った観念です  
 Now, very quickly,  another reason we cannot think straight about happiness  is that we do not attend to the same things  when we think about life, and we actually live.    	  ここで手短に説明しますが 幸福を考える時 これほど複雑化する もう1つの理由は 人生に関して考えるときと 実際に生きている日々とでは 我々は同じことに注目していないということです  
 So, if you ask the simple question of how happy people are in California,  you are not going to get to the correct answer.    	  ですから カリフォルニアの人たちに幸せの度合いを尋ねても 正しい答えは得られません  
 When you ask that question,  you think people must be happier in California  if, say, you live in Ohio.    	  その質問を他の人にすると カリフォルニアのほうが幸せなはずだと思うのです 例えばオハイオの人なんかね  
   And what happens is  when you think about living in California,  between California and other places,  and that contrast, say, is in climate.    	   ここで起きるのは カリフォルニアで暮らす事を考える時 カリフォルニアと別の場所を 対比させて考える ということです 例えば 気候の違いです  
 Well, it turns out that climate  is not very important to the experiencing self  and it's not even very important to the reflective self  But now, because the reflective self is in charge,  you may end up -- some people may end up  moving to California.    	  実は 気候というのは 経験の自己には重要ではなく 人がどれだけ幸せなのかを決める― 記憶の自己にも それほど重要ではありません しかし 記憶の自己がつかさどっているので 中には カリフォルニアへ 引っ越す人が出るのです 幸せになるだろうと期待してカリフォルニアへ  
 And it's sort of interesting to trace what is going to happen to people who move to California in the hope of getting happier.    	  移り住む人たちに何が起こるのか 追跡するのは興味深いんです  
 Well, their experiencing self  is not going to get happier.    	  経験の自己が 一層幸せになる事はありません  
 We know that.    	  本当です  
 But one thing will happen: They will think they are happier,  because, when they think about it,  they'll be reminded of how horrible the weather was in Ohio,  and they will feel they made the right decision.    	  でも確実に言えるのは 彼らがもっと幸せだと思うようになる事です なぜなら 彼らはオハイオの天気が どれだけ悪かったか思い出し 正しい決断をしたと感じるからです  
 It is very difficult to think straight about well-being,  and I hope I have given you a sense  of how difficult it is.    	  心身ともに健全でいることを 事実どおりに考えるのは非常に難しいのです どれだけ難しいことなのか わかってもらえたでしょうか  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとう  
   Chris Anderson: Thank you. I've got a question for you.    	  （拍手） ありがとう　質問があります  
 Thank you so much.    	  どうもありがとう  
 Now, when we were on the phone a few weeks ago,  you mentioned to me that there was quite an interesting result  came out of that Gallup survey.    	  数週間前に電話でお話しした時 世論調査で浮かび上がった非常に興味深い 結果を教えてくれましたね  
 Is that something you can share  since you do have a few moments left now?    	  時間があるので お話してくれませんか  
 Daniel Kahneman: Sure.    	  もちろんです  
 I think the most interesting result that we found in the Gallup survey  is a number, which we absolutely did not expect to find.    	  世論調査で明らかになった最も興味深いことは 予想もしていなかった数値が浮かび上がったことです  
 We found that with respect to the happiness  of the experiencing self.    	  経験の自己から見る幸福に関し 分かったのは  
 When we looked at how feelings,  vary with income.    	  我々の感情は 収入と密接に 関わっていることです  
 And it turns out that, below an income  of 60,000 dollars a year, for Americans --  and that's a very large sample of Americans, like 600,000,  so it's a large representative sample --  below an income of 600,000 dollars a year...    	  ここで明らかになったのは アメリカ人にとって 年収6万ドル以下は 60万人から聞き出した調査なので 典型的なサンプルですが 年収60万ドル以下だと…  
 CA: 60,000.    	  6万ドルですね？  
 DK: 60,000.    	  そうそう　6万ドル  
   60,000 dollars a year, people are unhappy,  and they get progressively unhappier the poorer they get.    	   年収6万ドル以下だと 惨めさを感じ 金額が下がるほど その度合いは増します  
 Above that, we get an absolutely flat line.    	  6万ドル以上の場合は変化はありません  
 I mean I've rarely seen lines so flat.    	  そこまで平らな線が出るのも珍しいのです  
 Clearly, what is happening is  money does not buy you experiential happiness,  but lack of money certainly buys you misery,  and we can measure that misery  very, very clearly.    	  明らかに ここで言える事は 経験的な幸福をお金で買うことはできませんが お金がないのと 惨めな思いをするということです その惨めさをはっきりと 測ることもできます  
 In terms of the other self, the remembering self,  you get a different story.    	  記憶の自己からみると 違う内容になります  
 The more money you earn, the more satisfied you are.    	  お金を儲けるほど 満足感は増す  
 That does not hold for emotions.    	  これに感情は関与しません  
 CA: But Danny, the whole American endeavor is about  life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness.    	  でもアメリカ人が頑張るのも 生活 自由 幸福の追求のためですよね？  
 If people took seriously that finding,  I mean, it seems to turn upside down  everything we believe about, like for example,  taxation policy and so forth.    	  もし 皆がその調査結果を真剣に受け止めたら 私たちが信じる全てを 180度転換するような感じがします 例えば 税制に関してとか…  
 Is there any chance that politicians, that the country generally, would take a finding like that seriously  and run public policy based on it?    	  政治家が この調査結果を真剣に受け止めて この基盤に基づいて公共政策を動かす事は  
 DK: You know I think that there is recognition  of the role of happiness research in public policy.    	  今後あるでしょうか？ 公共政策の中で 幸福の研究も 位置づけられていると思います  
 The recognition is going to be slow in the United States,  no question about that,  but in the U.K., it is happening,  People are recognizing that they ought  to be thinking of happiness  when they think of public policy.    	  アメリカでの認知度向上には 間違いなく 時間がかかるでしょう イギリスや他国では 認知度が高まっていて 公共政策を考える際 幸福を視野に入れる必要性が  
 It's going to take a while,  and people are going to debate  whether they want to study experience happiness,  or whether they want to study life evaluation,  so we need to have that debate fairly soon.    	  考慮されています 時間はかかりますし 幸福の経験の研究や 生活の評価の研究に関して 議論がなされるでしょう その議論も近々必要ですね  
 How to enhance happiness  goes very different ways depending on how you think,  and whether you think of the remembering self  or you think of the experiencing self.    	  幸福の高め方は その人の考え方によって異なりますし 記憶の自己や経験の自己のどちらを 考えるかによっても異なります  
 This is going to influence policy, I think, in years to come.    	  これは今後 政策に影響するでしょう  
 In the United States, efforts are being made  to measure the experience happiness of the population.    	  アメリカでは 全国民の経験的な幸福を 測る努力がされています  
 This is going to be, I think, within the next decade or two,  part of national statistics.    	  今後10~20年以内に これは国家統計の 一部になると思います  
 CA: Well, it seems to me that this issue will -- or at least should be --  the most interesting policy discussion to track  over the next few years.    	  この問題は 今後数年の間 一番興味深い政策論議に なりそうですね  
 Thank you so much for inventing behavioral economics.    	  行動経済学を生み出してくれて ありがとう  
 Thank you, Danny Kahneman.    	  どうもありがとう  
 I'm going to talk today about energy and climate.    	  今日はエネルギーと気候について話そうと思います  
 And that might seem a bit surprising because  my full-time work at the Foundation is mostly about vaccines and seeds,  to help the poorest two billion live better lives.    	  少し驚かれるかもしれません 私の財団での主な仕事はワクチンとか農業といったものだからです 貧しい暮らしをしている20億の人々の生活を改善するため 投資や援助が必要な分野です  
 But energy and climate are extremely important to these people --  in fact, more important than to anyone else on the planet.    	  でも エネルギーや気象も 貧しい人々に大きな影響があります 最も影響を受けるのが貧しい人々なのです  
 The climate getting worse means that many years, their crops won't grow:  There will be too much rain, not enough rain,  that their fragile environment simply can't support.    	  気候が悪くなれば 何年も作物が育たなくなります 雨が降りすぎたり 足りなかったり 彼らの脆弱な環境の限界を越えて  
 And that leads to starvation, it leads to uncertainty, it leads to unrest.    	  様々な変化が起きるでしょう 飢餓が発生し 混乱や争乱が起こります  
 So, the climate changes will be terrible for them.    	  つまり 気候変動は貧しい人々への脅威となるのです  
 Also, the price of energy is very important to them.    	  エネルギーの価格にも 大きな意味があります  
 In fact, if you could pick just one thing to lower the price of,  to reduce poverty, by far you would pick energy.    	  何か一つだけ価格を下げて 貧困を減らせるとしたら 間違いなく エネルギーを選択することでしょう  
 Now, the price of energy has come down over time.    	  エネルギーの価格は時代とともに低下してきています  
 Really advanced civilization is based on advances in energy.    	  まさに 先進文明はエネルギーの進歩をその基礎としています  
 The coal revolution fueled the Industrial Revolution,  and, even in the 1900s we've seen a very rapid decline in the price of electricity,  and that's why we have refrigerators, air-conditioning,  we can make modern materials and do so many things.    	  石炭革命によって産業革命に火がつきました また 1900年代にすでに 電力価格は急激に低下しています だからこそ 冷蔵庫やエアコンを使い 新素材を創り出し いろいろなことが可能になっているのです  
 And so, we're in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world.    	  豊かな世界では 電力によって素晴らしい環境がもたらされています  
 But, as we make it cheaper -- and let's go for making it twice as cheap --  we need to meet a new constraint,  and that constraint has to do with CO2.    	  しかし価格が低下すると - たとえば価格を半分としてみましょう - 別の制約に直面します CO2に関する制限です  
 CO2 is warming the planet,  and the equation on CO2 is actually a very straightforward one.    	  CO2は地球を暖めます CO2の方程式は非常に分かりやすいものです  
 If you sum up the CO2 that gets emitted,  that leads to a temperature increase,  and that temperature increase leads to some very negative effects:  the effects on the weather; perhaps worse, the indirect effects,  in that the natural ecosystems can't adjust to these rapid changes,  and so you get ecosystem collapses.    	  CO2排出の蓄積が 気温上昇につながります 気温が上昇すると 大変困ったことがいくつか起きます 気候はもちろん おそらく最悪の 直接目に見えない影響は 自然のエコシステムが急激な変化に対応できず エコシステムを崩壊に追いやってしまうことです  
 Now, the exact amount of how you map  from a certain increase of CO2 to what temperature will be  and where the positive feedbacks are,  there's some uncertainty there, but not very much.    	  一定量のCO2 の増加が どれほどの温度上昇に相当するのか　正確な関係や 正のフィードバックがどう作用するのかに関して 不明点があるにしても ほぼ解明されています  
 And there's certainly uncertainty about how bad those effects will be,  but they will be extremely bad.    	  どの程度の悪影響があるかは確かに不明なのですが 大きな影響であることは確かです  
 I asked the top scientists on this several times:  Do we really have to get down to near zero?    	  優秀な科学者になんどか尋ねてみました 本当にゼロにする必要があるのかどうか  
 Can't we just cut it in half or a quarter?    	  半分とか1/4ではダメなのか?  
 And the answer is that until we get near to zero,  the temperature will continue to rise.    	  ゼロに近づけるまでは 気温は上昇を続ける という答えでした  
 And so that's a big challenge.    	  これは大きな課題です  
 It's very different than saying "We're a twelve-foot-high truck trying to get under a ten-foot bridge,  and we can just sort of squeeze under."    	  12フィートのトラックが10フィートの橋の通り抜けるのとは違います 掘り下げればいいのですからね  
 This is something that has to get to zero.    	  ゼロにしなければなりません  
 Now, we put out a lot of carbon dioxide every year,  over 26 billion tons.    	  毎年 我々は大量の炭酸ガスを排出しています 260億トン以上にもなります  
 For each American, it's about 20 tons;  for people in poor countries, it's less than one ton.    	  アメリカ人一人あたり20トンです 貧困国では１トンにもなりません  
 It's an average of about five tons for everyone on the planet.    	  地球全体を平均すればひとり５トンになります  
 And, somehow, we have to make changes  that will bring that down to zero.    	  なんとかして状況を変えなければなりません ゼロに近づける必要があるのです  
 It's been constantly going up.    	  排出量は増え続けてきました  
 It's only various economic changes that have even flattened it at all,  so we have to go from rapidly rising  to falling, and falling all the way to zero.    	  増加を抑えることができたのは 経済的要因のみでした つまり 急上昇から 下降へ 下降を続けてゼロにまで下げなければならないのです  
 This equation has four factors,  a little bit of multiplication:  So, you've got a thing on the left, CO2, that you want to get to zero,  and that's going to be based on the number of people,  the services each person's using on average,  the energy on average for each service,  and the CO2 being put out per unit of energy.    	  この方程式には４つの変数があります 掛け算が必要です 左側にゼロに減らしたいCO2があります この量を決定するのは 人の数 一人当たりのサービス量 サービス当たりのエネルギー量 エネルギー単位あたりのCO2排出量です  
 So, let's look at each one of these  and see how we can get this down to zero.    	  それぞれの量を検討して どうすればゼロにできるかを考えましょう  
 Probably, one of these numbers is going to have to get pretty near to zero.    	  いずれかの数値をほぼゼロにすることが必要なはずです  
 Now that's back from high school algebra,  but let's take a look.    	  高校の代数の授業のようですが 少し我慢してください  
 First, we've got population.    	  まずは人口です  
 The world today has 6.8 billion people.    	  現在 世界の人口は68億人です  
 That's headed up to about nine billion.    	  90億人程度まで増加します  
 Now, if we do a really great job on new vaccines,  health care, reproductive health services,  we could lower that by, perhaps, 10 or 15 percent,  but there we see an increase of about 1.3.    	  しかし 新ワクチンや保健医療 生殖関連で十分な成果を納めれば おそらく 10%から15%抑えることができるかもしれません しかし今は 増加率を1.3と見ています  
 The second factor is the services we use.    	  二つ目の変数はサービスです  
 This encompasses everything:  the food we eat, clothing, TV, heating.    	  食べ物 衣料 テレビ 暖房 全ての物がサービスに含まれます  
 These are very good things:  getting rid of poverty means providing these services  to almost everyone on the planet.    	  どれも素晴らしい物です 貧困からの脱出とは サービスを地上の全ての人々に 行き渡らせることなのです  
 And it's a great thing for this number to go up.    	  この数値が増加するのは素晴らしいことです  
 In the rich world, perhaps the top one billion,  we probably could cut back and use less,  but every year, this number, on average, is going to go up,  and so, over all, that will more than double  the services delivered per person.    	  豊かな国 おそらく上位の10億人については 利用するサービスを削減することが可能でしょう しかし毎年 平均するとこの数値は上昇してゆくはずです 一人当たりに配分されるサービスの量は 二倍以上になることでしょう  
 Here we have a very basic service:  Do you have lighting in your house to be able to read your homework?    	  基本的なサービスです 家に電灯があるからこそ 家で勉強をすることができます  
 And, in fact, these kids don't, so they're going out  and reading their school work under the street lamps.    	  しかしこの子たちは違います 外で街灯の明かりで宿題をするのです  
 Now, efficiency, E, the energy for each service,  here finally we have some good news.    	  次に効率Eはサービス当たりのエネルギー量です この点に関しては良いニュースがあります  
 We have something that's not going up.    	  上昇していないのです  
 Through various inventions and new ways of doing lighting,  through different types of cars, different ways of building buildings --  there are a lot of services where you can bring  the energy for that service down quite substantially.    	  照明に関する多くの発明や 新しい照明方法 新タイプの自動車 従来とは異なる建築方法 必要なエネルギーを大幅に引き下げることができる サービスがたくさんあります  
 Some individual services even bring it down by 90 percent.    	  中には90%も削減できるサービスもあります  
 There are other services like how we make fertilizer,  or how we do air transport,  where the rooms for improvement are far, far less.    	  しかし一方で 化学肥料の製造や 航空輸送のように 削減の余地がほとんど無いサービスもあります  
 And so, overall here, if we're optimistic,  we may get a reduction of a factor of three to even, perhaps, a factor of six.    	  しかし楽天的に考えれば 1/3 ないし おろらく 1/6 に削減できるはずです  
 But for these first three factors now,  we've gone from 26 billion to, at best, maybe 13 billion tons,  and that just won't cut it.    	  しかし この最初の３つの変数だけでは 最良の場合でも260億トンを130億トンに削減できる程度でしょう それ以上の削減は望めません  
 So let's look at this fourth factor --  this is going to be a key one --  and this is the amount of CO2 put out per each unit of energy.    	  では４番目の変数を考えましょう この変数が鍵になります エネルギー量あたりのCO2排出量を示しています  
 And so the question is: Can you actually get that to zero?    	  問題はこの数値を実質ゼロに近づけることができるかです  
 If you burn coal, no.    	  石炭を燃やしたのでは ダメです  
 If you burn natural gas, no.    	  天然ガスを燃やしても ダメです  
 Almost every way we make electricity today,  except for the emerging renewables and nuclear, puts out CO2.    	  現在行われている発電の方法では 新しい再生可能エネルギーや原子力を除き CO2を排出します  
 And so, what we're going to have to do at a global scale,  is create a new system.    	  従って 今必要なことは 地球規模で 新しいシステムを創り出すことです  
 And so, we need energy miracles.    	  つまり 「奇跡の」エネルギーが必要なのです  
 Now, when I use the term "miracle," I don't mean something that's impossible.    	  「奇跡」ではあっても 不可能ではありません  
 The microprocessor is a miracle. The personal computer is a miracle.    	  マイクロプロセッサは奇跡です　パソコンも奇跡  
 The Internet and its services are a miracle.    	  インターネットやそのサービスも奇跡です  
 So, the people here have participated in the creation of many miracles.    	  我々は数多くの奇跡をつくりだしてきました  
 Usually, we don't have a deadline,  where you have to get the miracle by a certain date.    	  通常は 締め切り日は設定されていません いつまでに奇跡を起こさなければならない とは決まっていないのです  
 Usually, you just kind of stand by, and some come along, some don't.    	  向上するもの しないものがあり それをじっと待つのが普通です  
 This is a case where we actually have to drive at full speed  and get a miracle in a pretty tight timeline.    	  しかし このケースでは全速力で前進しなければなりません 厳しいスケジュールで奇跡を起こさなければならないのです  
 Now, I thought, "How could I really capture this?    	  どうすればうまく表現できるでしょうか？  
 Is there some kind of natural illustration,  some demonstration that would grab people's imagination here?"    	  どんな 自然の風景や デモをお見せすれば 人々のイマジネーションを刺激できるでしょうか？  
 I thought back to a year ago when I brought mosquitos,  and somehow people enjoyed that.    	  一年前 蚊を持ってきたときのことを思い出しました 皆さん 喜んでくれましたね  
   It really got them involved in the idea of,  you know, there are people who live with mosquitos.    	   蚊と共に暮らしている人々がいることを よく考えていただけたと思います  
 So, with energy, all I could come up with is this.    	  エネルギーに関してはこれを持ってきました  
 I decided that releasing fireflies  would be my contribution to the environment here this year.    	  ホタルを放すことを 環境に対する今年の貢献にしようと思ったのです  
 So here we have some natural fireflies.    	  野生のホタルを持ってきました  
 I'm told they don't bite; in fact, they might not even leave that jar.    	  噛まれることはないそうですが ビンから離れないかもしれません  
   Now, there's all sorts of gimmicky solutions like that one,  but they don't really add up to much.    	   様々の工夫をこらしたソリューションを集めてみました しかし あまり納得できるものではありません  
 We need solutions -- either one or several --  that have unbelievable scale  and unbelievable reliability,  and, although there's many directions people are seeking,  I really only see five that can achieve the big numbers.    	  ソリューションは一つであるとは限りませんが 規模が非常に大きく 信頼性が非常に高くなくてはなりません 人々は様々な方向に進もうとしていますが 大きな成果を得ることができるのは５つだけだと思います  
 I've left out tide, geothermal, fusion, biofuels.    	  波 地熱 核融合 バイオ燃料は含めていません  
 Those may make some contribution,  and if they can do better than I expect, so much the better,  but my key point here  is that we're going to have to work on each of these five,  and we can't give up any of them because they look daunting,  because they all have significant challenges.    	  ある程度の貢献は見込めるでしょう 期待を上回ってくれるのであれば　それに超したことはありません しかし ここでお話ししたいことは この５つに注力せねばならないということなのです 手強そうだからといって 一つでも諦めることはできません どれも大きな課題を有しているからです  
 Let's look first at the burning fossil fuels,  either burning coal or burning natural gas.    	  まず 化石燃料の使用について考えましょう 石炭や天然ガスを燃焼させることです  
 What you need to do there, seems like it might be simple, but it's not,  and that's to take all the CO2, after you've burned it, going out the flue,  pressurize it, create a liquid, put it somewhere,  and hope it stays there.    	  行うべきことは単純に思えるかもしれませんが 単純ではないのです 煙突から出るCO2をすべて取り去り 与圧して液体化し どこかへ保管しなければなりません じっとその場に留まってくれと祈ります  
 Now we have some pilot things that do this at the 60 to 80 percent level,  but getting up to that full percentage, that will be very tricky,  and agreeing on where these CO2 quantities should be put will be hard,  but the toughest one here is this long-term issue.    	  60%から80%のレベルで この処理を行う試験運用を行っています しかし 100%を達成するには工夫が必要なのです また 大量のCO2をどこに保管すべきかを合意することも難関となります 非常に長期にわたる課題であることが最も難しい点でしょう  
 Who's going to be sure?    	  誰が保証できるのでしょうか？  
 Who's going to guarantee something that is literally billions of times larger  than any type of waste you think of in terms of nuclear or other things?    	  原子力やその他 従来の廃棄物と比較して何十億倍にもなる 廃棄物を誰が保証してくれるのでしょうか？  
 This is a lot of volume.    	  それほどの量なのです  
 So that's a tough one.    	  非常に難しい挑戦です  
 Next would be nuclear.    	  次に原子力はどうでしょうか  
 It also has three big problems:  Cost, particularly in highly regulated countries, is high;  the issue of the safety, really feeling good about nothing could go wrong,  that, even though you have these human operators,  that the fuel doesn't get used for weapons.    	  原子力も３つの大きな問題を抱えています 規制の厳しい国においては特に コストが高くなります 安全性については 問題がなければ それに超したことはありません 監視員がいるにしても 燃料が兵器に使われないかどうかは安全上の問題なのです  
 And then what do you do with the waste?    	  廃棄物の処理はどうすればいいのでしょうか？  
 And, although it's not very large, there are a lot of concerns about that.    	  大量の廃棄物ではありませんが 懸念が大きい点となっています  
 People need to feel good about it.    	  この懸念を晴らす必要があります  
 So three very tough problems that might be solvable,  and so, should be worked on.    	  この３つは難しい問題ですが解決可能なはずです さらに努力を重ねなければなりません  
 The last three of the five, I've grouped together.    	  残りの３つについては まとめてあります  
 These are what people often refer to as the renewable sources.    	  よく 再生可能エネルギー源と呼ばれているものです  
 And they actually -- although it's great they don't require fuel --  they have some disadvantages.    	  現実のところ これらは燃料を必要としない点では優れていますが 不利な点も持ち合わせているのです  
 One is that the density of energy gathered in these technologies  is dramatically less than a power plant.    	  ます こういった技術で収集できるエネルギー密度が 発電所に比べ著しく低い点です  
 This is energy farming, so you're talking about many square miles,  thousands of time more area than you think of as a normal energy plant.    	  エネルギー農場であり 広大な面積が必要になります 普通に思いつく発電所の何千倍もの面積が必要なのです  
 Also, these are intermittent sources.    	  また 安定した供給源でもありません  
 The sun doesn't shine all day, it doesn't shine every day,  and, likewise, the wind doesn't blow all the time.    	  お日様は毎日 一日中 照っている訳ではありません 風も常に吹いているわけではないのです  
 And so, if you depend on these sources,  you have to have some way of getting the energy  during those time periods that it's not available.    	  もし こういった供給源に頼るとすると それを利用できない間 エネルギーを得る 別の手段を用意しなければなりません  
 So, we've got big cost challenges here,  we have transmission challenges:  for example, say this energy source is outside your country;  you not only need the technology,  but you have to deal with the risk of the energy coming from elsewhere.    	  コスト上の大きな問題となります エネルギーを送信する上での課題もあります 例えば 供給源が国外にあるとすると 技術上の課題が発生するだけでなく エネルギーを国外から得るリスクも考慮が必要になります  
 And, finally, this storage problem.    	  また 貯蔵に関する課題もあります  
 And, to dimensionalize this, I went through and looked at all the types of batteries that get made --  for cars, for computers, for phones, for flashlights, for everything --  and compared that to the amount of electrical energy the world uses,  and what I found is that all the batteries we make now  could store less than 10 minutes of all the energy.    	  この問題を検討するために あらゆるタイプのバッテリを チェックしてみました　自動車用 コンピュータ用 携帯用 フラッシュライト用など様々なバッテリを調査したのです 世界規模で必要になる電力量と比較してみました 現在入手できるバッテリをすべて集めても 必要なエネルギーを10分供給することができません  
 And so, in fact, we need a big breakthrough here,  something that's going to be a factor of 100 better  than the approaches we have now.    	  つまり劇的な技術革新が必要なのです 現在私たちが採っているアプローチに比べ 百倍単位で貯蔵能力を改善できるような技術革新です  
 It's not impossible, but it's not a very easy thing.    	  不可能ではありませんが 容易なことではありません  
 Now, this shows up when you try to get the intermittent source  to be above, say, 20 to 30 percent of what you're using.    	  不安定な供給源からエネルギーを得る場合 必要量の20%から30%が上限になるでしょう  
 If you're counting on it for 100 percent,  you need an incredible miracle battery.    	  100%頼るとなると 驚くべき「奇跡の」バッテリが必要になるのです  
 Now, how we're going to go forward on this -- what's the right approach?    	  では どう進めてゆけばよいのでしょうか　正しいアプローチは何でしょうか？  
 Is it a Manhattan Project? What's the thing that can get us there?    	  マンハッタン計画でしょうか？　どうすれば目的が達成できるのでしょうか？  
 Well, we need lots of companies working on this, hundreds.    	  この問題に取り組む企業が数多く必要です　数百でしょう  
 In each of these five paths, we need at least a hundred people.    	  ５つの方法にそれぞれに 最低でも100人が取り組む必要があります  
 And a lot of them, you'll look at and say, "They're crazy." That's good.    	  多くはクレイジーだと言われるでしょう　それで構いません  
 And, I think, here in the TED group,  we have many people who are already pursuing this.    	  このTEDグループの中にも 既にこの方向に進んでいる多くの方々がいます  
 Bill Gross has several companies, including one called eSolar  that has some great solar thermal technologies.    	  ビル=グロスが持っている会社の中に eSolarがあります この会社は優れた太陽熱の技術を有しています  
 Vinod Khosla's investing in dozens of companies  that are doing great things and have interesting possibilities,  and I'm trying to help back that.    	  ビノッド=コースラは数十社に投資をしていますが 優れたビジネスを行っており 将来の可能性もあります 私も協力しています  
 Nathan Myhrvold and I actually are backing a company  that, perhaps surprisingly, is actually taking the nuclear approach.    	  ネイサン=ミアボルドと私は ある会社を支援しています 驚かれるでしょうが 原子力利用のアプローチを採っている会社です  
 There are some innovations in nuclear: modular, liquid.    	  モジュラー型や冷却型など 原子炉に関する技術革新がありました  
 And innovation really stopped in this industry quite some ago,  so the idea that there's some good ideas laying around is not all that surprising.    	  この産業においては技術革新は以前からストップしています 従って 優れたアイデアが放置されているという考えは的外れではありません  
 The idea of TerraPower is that, instead of burning a part of uranium -- the one percent, which is the U235 --  we decided, "Let's burn the 99 percent, the U238."    	  ウランの一部分 つまり1%のU235を燃焼させる代わりに 残りの99%であるU238を燃焼させてみよう  
 It is kind of a crazy idea.    	  というのが Terrapowerのアイデアでした クレイジーなアイデアです  
 In fact, people had talked about it for a long time,  but they could never simulate properly whether it would work or not,  and so it's through the advent of modern supercomputers  that now you can simulate and see that, yes,  with the right material's approach, this looks like it would work.    	  この方法は昔から考えられていました しかし 上手く行くかどうか 正確にシミュレートできなかったのです 最新のスーパーコンピュータを利用できるようになったことで シミュレートが可能になり 適切な燃料を使うアプローチで 上手く行きそうだと分かりました  
 And, because you're burning that 99 percent,  you have greatly improved cost profile.    	  99%を燃料として使用することで コスト面で劇的な改善が得られます  
 You actually burn up the waste, and you can actually use as fuel  all the leftover waste from today's reactors.    	  燃やしているのは廃棄物であり 既存の原子炉でできる すべての残留廃棄物を燃料とすることができるのです  
 So, instead of worrying about them, you just take that. It's a great thing.    	  廃棄物を懸念するのではなく 利用するのです　優れた方法です  
 It breathes this uranium as it goes along, so it's kind of like a candle.    	  ウランを取り込んで燃焼します　ローソクのようなものです  
 You can see it's a log there, often referred to as a traveling wave reactor.    	  丸太のようなものがあります 進行波炉と呼ばれています  
 In terms of fuel, this really solves the problem.    	  燃料の面では これが解決策となります  
 I've got a picture here of a place in Kentucky.    	  ケンタッキー州で撮影した写真です  
 This is the leftover, the 99 percent,  where they've taken out the part they burn now,  so it's called depleted uranium.    	  99%にあたる 残留物です 燃料として利用できる部分は取り去られていますので 劣化ウランと呼ばれます  
 That would power the U.S. for hundreds of years.    	  アメリカに数百年間 エネルギーを供給できます  
 And, simply by filtering seawater in an inexpensive process,  you'd have enough fuel for the entire lifetime of the rest of the planet.    	  低価格の方法で海水を濾過するだけで この惑星が未来永劫必要とする量の燃料を入手できるのです  
 So, you know, it's got lots of challenges ahead,  but it is an example of the many hundreds and hundreds of ideas  that we need to move forward.    	  課題も多く存在します しかし これは数多く存在する 我々が推進すべき アイデアの一例に過ぎません  
 So let's think: How should we measure ourselves?    	  自分をどうやって評価すべきでしょうか？  
 What should our report card look like?    	  通信簿をどう作れば良いのでしょう？  
 Well, let's go out to where we really need to get,  and then look at the intermediate.    	  まず最終目標について考えた後 その中間地点を振り返ってみることにしましょう  
 For 2050, you've heard many people talk about this 80 percent reduction.    	  2050年に80%の削減という表現をよく聞きます  
 That really is very important, that we get there.    	  これは非常に重要で 我々が目指すところです  
 And that 20 percent will be used up by things going on in poor countries,  still some agriculture,  hopefully we will have cleaned up forestry, cement.    	  残りの20%は貧しい国々で使い切ることになるでしょう 農業もあります 林業やセメントの問題は片付いていると思います  
 So, to get to that 80 percent,  the developed countries, including countries like China,  will have had to switch their electricity generation altogether.    	  ですから 80%を達成するには 中国のような国々を含む先進国は 発電の方法を完全に変えてしまわなければなりません  
 So, the other grade is: Are we deploying this zero-emission technology,  have we deployed it in all the developed countries  and we're in the process of getting it elsewhere?    	  さらに成績を上げるため 排出量ゼロの技術を展開しています すべての先進国での技術展開が完了し その他の国々にも展開をしているとことです  
 That's super important.    	  これは非常に重要です  
 That's a key element of making that report card.    	  通信簿の観点となります  
 So, backing up from there, what should the 2020 report card look like?    	  振り返って 2020年の通信簿はどうなっているべきでしょうか？  
 Well, again, it should have the two elements.    	  やはり二つの要素があるはずです  
 We should go through these efficiency measures to start getting reductions:  The less we emit, the less that sum will be of CO2,  and, therefore, the less the temperature.    	  削減を進展させるためにはこれらのあらゆる効率化の手段が必要です 排出量を減らせば CO2排出量の合計も減らすことができ 気温も下がります  
 But in some ways, the grade we get there,  doing things that don't get us all the way to the big reductions,  is only equally, or maybe even slightly less, important than the other,  which is the piece of innovation on these breakthroughs.    	  しかし 我々の評価において 大幅な削減にまで至らないことを行うことは もう一方の評価ほど重要ではないのです それはブレイクスルーに属する様々のイノベーションです  
 These breakthroughs, we need to move those at full speed,  and we can measure that in terms of companies,  pilot projects, regulatory things that have been changed.    	  これらのブレイクスルーは全速力で推進しなければなりません 企業やテストプログラム 法規制などがどのように変わったか によってその成果を測定することができるでしょう  
 There's a lot of great books that have been written about this.    	  これについては 素晴らしい本が沢山あります  
 The Al Gore book, "Our Choice"  and the David McKay book, "Sustainable Energy Without the Hot Air."    	  アル=ゴアの「私たちの選択」 デヴィッド=マッケイの''Sustainable Energy Without the Hot Air.''  
 They really go through it and create a framework  that this can be discussed broadly,  because we need broad backing for this.    	  彼等の真剣な取り組みから フレームワークが創られました このフレームワークは広く議論されるべきです 幅広い支援が必要なのですから  
 There's a lot that has to come together.    	  やるべきことは沢山あります  
 So this is a wish.    	  願い事です  
 It's a very concrete wish that we invent this technology.    	  具体的な願い事をすることで このテクノロジーが生まれました  
 If you gave me only one wish for the next 50 years --  I could pick who's president,  I could pick a vaccine, which is something I love,  or I could pick that this thing  that's half the cost with no CO2 gets invented --  this is the wish I would pick.    	  次の50年に 一つだけ願い事ができるとしたら 大統領の指名を選ぶでしょうか 私の天職である ワクチンを選ぶでしょうか あるいは これを選ぶでしょうか CO2を排出しない技術のコストを半減する発明を 私はこれを選ぶでしょう  
 This is the one with the greatest impact.    	  非常に影響力の大きな選択肢です  
 If we don't get this wish,  the division between the people who think short term and long term will be terrible,  between the U.S. and China, between poor countries and rich,  and most of all the lives of those two billion will be far worse.    	  これを願わなければ 短期を考える人 長期を考える人の溝は広がり続けます アメリカと中国 貧しい国と豊かな国 20億人の暮らしはさらに悪化することでしょう  
 So, what do we have to do?    	  では何をすればいいのでしょうか？  
 What am I appealing to you to step forward and drive?    	  何を推進してゆかなければならないのでしょうか？  
 We need to go for more research funding.    	  さらに研究資金を得る必要があります  
 When countries get together in places like Copenhagen,  they shouldn't just discuss the CO2.    	  コペンハーゲンのような場で国々が集まった際には CO2についてのみ議論してもだめなのです  
 They should discuss this innovation agenda,  and you'd be stunned at the ridiculously low levels of spending  on these innovative approaches. We do need the market incentives -- CO2 tax, cap and trade --  something that gets that price signal out there.    	  イノベーションのアジェンダについて議論すべきです 革新的なアプローチに対する 支出があまりに低いことに愕然とすることでしょう 炭素税やキャップ=アンド=トレードのような市場に対するインセンティブが必要です 価格によって信号を発信すべきです  
 We need to get the message out.    	  メッセージを発信しなければなりません  
 We need to have this dialogue be a more rational, more understandable dialogue,  including the steps that the government takes.    	  この対話をさらに合理的で 理解を得られるものにしなければなりません それには政府が採るステップも含まれます  
 This is an important wish, but it is one I think we can achieve.    	  これは非常に重要な願い事であり 必ず成し遂げられると思っています  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとう  
   Thank you.    	  （拍手） ありがとう  
 Chris Anderson: Thank you. Thank you.    	  クリス=アンダーソン:ありがとう　ありがとう  
   Thank you. So to understand more about TerraPower, right --  I mean, first of all, can you give a sense of what scale of investment this is?    	  （拍手） ありがとう　Terrapowerについて理解を深めたいと思うのですが まず 投資の規模としてはどのくらいなのでしょうか？  
 Bil Gates: To actually do the software, buy the supercomputer,  hire all the great scientists, which we've done,  that's only tens of millions,  and even once we test our materials out in a Russian reactor  to make sure that our materials work properly,  then you'll only be up in the hundreds of millions.    	  ビル=ゲイツ:ソフト開発やスパコンの購入 優秀な科学者の雇用は終わっています 数千万しか要していません 一度 ロシアの原子炉で資材のテストができれば 問題がないことがはっきりするはずです それでも数億で済みます  
 The tough thing is building the pilot reactor;  finding the several billion, finding the regulator, the location  that will actually build the first one of these.    	  難関は試験炉の建設です 数十億が必要で 監視機関や建設場所を探して 第一号を実際に建設することになります  
 Once you get the first one built, if it works as advertised,  then it's just clear as day, because the economics, the energy density,  are so different than nuclear as we know it.    	  第一号を建設し 宣伝文句通りであることが分かれば 明白になります　なぜなら経済面 エネルギー密度が 既知の原子炉とは全く異なるからです  
 CA: And so, to understand it right, this involves building deep into the ground  almost like a vertical kind of column of nuclear fuel,  of this sort of spent uranium,  and then the process starts at the top and kind of works down?    	  CA: 地中奥深くに 核燃料 使用済みウランの柱を 垂直に立てると理解していいでしょうか？ そして 上部からプロセスが始まり 下の方へ続いてゆくのでしょうか？  
 BG: That's right. Today, you're always refueling the reactor,  so you have lots of people and lots of controls that can go wrong:  that thing where you're opening it up and moving things in and out,  that's not good.    	  BG:そうです 現在の原子炉では常に燃料補給が必要です 多くの人が複雑な管理をしていて 間違いも起こります 容器を開けて 移動して 中身を出し入れするような 良くないことです  
 So, if you have very cheap fuel that you can put 60 years in --  just think of it as a log --  put it down and not have those same complexities.    	  60年間使える安価な燃料があれば 丸太と同じだと思って下さい 置いておくだけで 従来の複雑さはないのです  
 And it just sits there and burns for the 60 years, and then it's done.    	  60年間燃え続け 最後には無くなります  
 CA: It's a nuclear power plant that is its own waste disposal solution.    	  CA:廃棄物処理のソリューションとなる原子力発電所ですね  
 BG: Yeah. Well, what happens with the waste,  you can let it sit there -- there's a lot less waste under this approach --  then you can actually take that,  and put it into another one and burn that.    	  BG:そうです　廃棄物は ずっと少なくなりますから そのまま置いておけます 実際には 廃棄物を取り出して 次の燃料と入れ替えて使うことになります  
 And we start off actually by taking the waste that exists today,  that's sitting in these cooling pools or dry casking by reactors --  that's our fuel to begin with.    	  最初の燃料としては 既に存在している廃棄物 冷却プールやドライ・キャスクにある廃棄物を利用します 最初の燃料となる訳です  
 So, the thing that's been a problem from those reactors  is actually what gets fed into ours,  and you're reducing the volume of the waste quite dramatically  as you're going through this process.    	  従来の原子炉でずっと問題になっていた物が 我々の原子炉に送り込まれるのです このプロセスによって 廃棄物を 劇的に削減することができるはずです  
 CA: I mean, you're talking to different people around the world  about the possibilities here.    	  CA:このアプローチの可能性について 世界中の人々と 話されたと思いますが  
 Where is there most interest in actually doing something with this?    	  実際にこれを行うことに最も関心を示した国はどこですか？  
 BG: Well, we haven't picked a particular place,  and there's all these interesting disclosure rules about anything that's called "nuclear,"  so we've got a lot of interest,  that people from the company have been in Russia, India, China --  I've been back seeing the secretary of energy here,  talking about how this fits into the energy agenda.    	  BG:まだ特定の場所を選択してはいません 核と名のつく物には奇妙な開示ルールがつきものです 多くの人が関心を示します ロシア インド 中国の会社の人たちと会っています こちらでエネルギー大臣ともお会いできたので このアプローチがエネルギー計画に合致するかどうか話しました  
 So I'm optimistic. You know, the French and Japanese have done some work.    	  ですから楽観しています　日仏の企業はすでに対応をしています  
 This is a variant on something that has been done.    	  今までに行われてきたことの改良なのです  
 It's an important advance, but it's like a fast reactor,  and a lot of countries have built them,  so anybody who's done a fast reactor is a candidate to be where the first one gets built.    	  著しく進歩していますが 高速炉と同じです 高速炉は既に多くの国々で建設されています 高速炉の経験があれば 1号機を建設できる候補者です  
 CA: So, in your mind, timescale and likelihood  of actually taking something like this live?    	  CA: 実現までの期間と可能性を どう見ていますか？  
 BG: Well, we need -- for one of these high-scale, electro-generation things  that's very cheap,  we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to deploy.    	  BG:高度な発電施設を すごく安く 建設しなければなりません 開発に 20 年 普及に 20 年かかります  
 That's sort of the deadline that the environmental models  have shown us that we have to meet.    	  環境モデルから導かれる その デッドラインには間に合わせないといけません  
 And, you know, TerraPower, if things go well -- which is wishing for a lot --  could easily meet that.    	  Terrapowerがうまくゆけば 簡単なことでしょう そう望んでいます  
 And there are, fortunately now, dozens of companies --  we need it to be hundreds --  who, likewise, if their science goes well,  if the funding for their pilot plants goes well,  that they can compete for this.    	  また現在 幸いにも数十の会社が取り組み ― 数百社に増えて欲しいのですが ― 同様に その科学技術が成果を収め 試験施設の資金集めが順調に進めば よい競合となるはずです  
 And it's best if multiple succeed,  because then you could use a mix of these things.    	  多くの会社が成功すれば 良い部分を取り入れて使うことができます  
 We certainly need one to succeed.    	  まず 一つが成功する必要があります  
 CA: In terms of big-scale possible game changes,  is this the biggest that you're aware of out there?    	  CA:長期間の間には状況が激変する可能性もあります 最も大きな関心事は他にあるのでしょうか？  
 BG: An energy breakthrough is the most important thing.    	  BG:エネルギー革命は最も重要なことです  
 It would have been, even without the environmental constraint,  but the environmental constraint just makes it so much greater.    	  もし環境問題がなかったとしても それは変わりません 環境問題は単に エネルギー革命の重要性を大きくしているだけです  
 In the nuclear space, there are other innovators.    	  原子力の分野では他にもイノベータが存在します  
 You know, we don't know their work as well as we know this one,  but the modular people, that's a different approach.    	  我々と同じくらい良い仕事をしているかどうかは分かりませんが モジュラー型で 別のアプローチを採っている人々もいます  
 There's a liquid-type reactor, which seems a little hard,  but maybe they say that about us.    	  冷却型もありますが 難しそうです 我々も難しそうと評価されるかもしれません  
 And so, there are different ones,  but the beauty of this is a molecule of uranium  has a million times as much energy as a molecule of, say, coal,  and so -- if you can deal with the negatives,  which are essentially the radiation --  the footprint and cost, the potential,  in terms of effect on land and various things,  is almost in a class of its own.    	  様々な型の原子炉がありますが 素晴らしい点は ウランの分子が 石炭などに比べて 百万倍ものエネルギーを有しており もしマイナスの面を克服できれば つまり放射能の問題ですが 環境への影響やコスト 土地の有効利用などの面での 効率といった観点から 他とは比較にならないでしょう  
 CA: If this doesn't work, then what?    	  CA:うまく行かなかった場合は？  
 Do we have to start taking emergency measures  to try and keep the temperature of the earth stable?    	  気温を安定させるための試みとして なにか緊急手段を検討しなければならないでしょうか？  
 BG: If you get into that situation,  it's like if you've been over-eating, and you're about to have a heart attack:  Then where do you go? You may need heart surgery or something.    	  BG:そういう状況というのは 食べ過ぎて 心臓発作を起こしてしまったようなものです どうしますか？心臓手術が必要かもしれません  
 There is a line of research on what's called geoengineering,  which are various techniques that would delay the heating  to buy us 20 or 30 years to get our act together.    	  地球工学と呼ばれる一連の研究があります 温熱効果を遅らせる様々な技術があり 20年か30年の時間的猶予を与えてくれるでしょう  
 Now, that's just an insurance policy.    	  これが一種の保険となります  
 You hope you don't need to do that.    	  必要なければ良いと思います  
 Some people say you shouldn't even work on the insurance policy  because it might make you lazy,  that you'll keep eating because you know heart surgery will be there to save you.    	  中には 保険なんて掛けない方が良いという人もいます 保険があるから 怠惰な生活を続け 食べ続けるのだ 心臓手術で助かるだろうと考えるからだ というのですが―  
 I'm not sure that's wise, given the importance of the problem,  but there's now the geoengineering discussion  about -- should that be in the back pocket in case things happen faster,  or this innovation goes a lot slower than we expect?    	  問題の重要性を考えれば 良い考えには思えません しかし 地球工学についての議論も始めておくべきでしょう 状況が予想より早く悪化したり 技術改革が予想より遅い可能性もあるのですから  
 CA: Climate skeptics: If you had a sentence or two to say to them,  how might you persuade them that they're wrong?    	  CA:気候変動に懐疑的な人々に話しておくことはありますか 彼らが間違っていると納得させることはできるでしょうか？  
 BG: Well, unfortunately, the skeptics come in different camps.    	  BG:残念ですが 懐疑論者とは全く立場が異なります  
 The ones who make scientific arguments are very few.    	  科学的な議論をしている人は僅かです  
 that have to do with clouds that offset things?    	  雲によって相殺が行われることに関する  
 There are very, very few things that they can even say  there's a chance in a million of those things.    	  負のフィードバック効果について言及しているのでしょうか？ 百万分の一の確率でそういうことがある  
 The main problem we have here, it's kind of like AIDS.    	  というのも難しいのではないでしょうか 主要な問題はAIDSの場合と同じです  
 You make the mistake now, and you pay for it a lot later.    	  今間違いを犯せば 将来にツケを残します  
 And so, when you have all sorts of urgent problems,  the idea of taking pain now that has to do with a gain later,  and a somewhat uncertain pain thing --  in fact, the IPCC report, that's not necessarily the worst case,  and there are people in the rich world who look at IPCC  and say, "OK, that isn't that big of a deal."    	  緊急の課題がたくさんある場合 後で有利になるなら 今は我慢もしようという考えです どれほどの我慢かはっきりしなくてもです 事実 IPCCのレポートは 最悪のケースを想定しているとは限りません IPCCを知っているのは豊かな世界の人々です 大騒ぎすることはないよ と言えるのです  
 The fact is it's that uncertain part that should move us towards this.    	  不明確な部分があるからこそ 私たちは行動をしています  
 But my dream here is that, if you can make it economic,  and meet the CO2 constraints,  then the skeptics say, "OK,  I don't care that it doesn't put out CO2,  I kind of wish it did put out CO2,  but I guess I'll accept it because it's cheaper than what's come before."    	  私の夢は もし これを経済的にも合理的で CO2 の制約もクリアしてしまえば 懐疑論者も こう言うでしょう OK　CO2を排出しないことは気にしない 少しくらい排出してもいいんだが 以前より値段が下がっているから 問題ないと思うよ  
   CA: And so, that would be your response to the Bjorn Lomborg argument,  that basically if you spend all this energy trying to solve the CO2 problem,  it's going to take away all your other goals  of trying to rid the world of poverty and malaria and so forth,  it's a stupid waste of the Earth's resources to put money towards that  BG: Well, the actual spending on the R&D piece --    	  （拍手） CA:ビヨルン=ロンボルグの論理に対する答えになると思いますが つまり 彼は CO2の問題にすべての資源をつぎ込んでしまえば 貧困問題やマラリア対策など 他の目標をすべて達成することができなくなる という論理で 他に私たちができることがあるのに この問題にお金を出すのは 馬鹿げた無駄遣いだろうというのです BG: 実際のところ R&Dに関する支出では  
 say the U.S. should spend 10 billion a year more than it is right now --  it's not that dramatic.    	  米国は現在より年間100億ドル多く支出するべきです 驚くような金額ではありません  
 It shouldn't take away from other things.    	  他のことが犠牲になるわけではないのです  
 The thing you get into big money on, and this, reasonable people can disagree,  is when you have something that's non-economic and you're trying to fund that --  that, to me, mostly is a waste.    	  経済的に価値がないものに対して出資を行っている それなら 分別のある人が反対するのも理解できます 私も無駄遣いだと思うでしょう  
 Unless you're very close and you're just funding the learning curve  and it's going to get very cheap,  I believe we should try more things that have a potential  to be far less expensive.    	  ゴールも間近で習熟曲線に従った投資が 価格を下げていくのです 可能性のあることに もっと挑戦して 価格を下げるべきだと信じています  
 If the trade-off you get into is, "Let's make energy super expensive,"  then the rich can afford that.    	  このトレードオフで エネルギーの価格が上昇したとして 豊かな人々には問題にならないでしょう  
 I mean, all of us here could pay five times as much for our energy  and not change our lifestyle.    	  ここにいる人は５倍を支払えるはずですし それでもライフスタイルは変わりません  
 The disaster is for that two billion.    	  問題は20億の人々です  
 And even Lomborg has changed.    	  R&Dについての議論が高まらないという点に  
 His shtick now is, "Why isn't the R&D getting more discussed?"    	  ロンボルグは論点を変えています  
 He's still, because of his earlier stuff,  still associated with the skeptic camp,  but he's realized that's a pretty lonely camp,  and so, he's making the R&D point.    	  彼の立場から 懐疑論に寄った意見をもっています しかし 賛成が少ないことを理解して R&Dを問題にしているのでしょう  
 And so there is a thread of something that I think is appropriate.    	  私も適切だと思う点があります  
 The R&D piece, it's crazy how little it's funded.    	  R&Dに対して出資されている資金の少なさです  
 CA: Well Bill, I suspect I speak on the behalf of most people here  to say I really hope your wish comes true. Thank you so much.    	  CA:ではビル みんなを代表して 願いが叶うことを期待しています　ありがとう  
 BG: Thank you.    	  BG:ありがとう  
 I'd like to share with you a discovery that I made a few months ago  while writing an article for Italian Wired.    	  数ヶ月前に雑誌の記事を執筆していたときに 発見したことをお話しします  
 I always keep my thesaurus handy whenever I'm writing anything,  but I'd already finished editing the piece,  and I realized that I had never once in my life  looked up the word "disabled" to see what I'd find.    	  いつも類義語辞典を そばに置いておくのですが その時は執筆も終わっていて 「不能にする」 - disabled - の類義語を 一度も調べたことがないと気が付きました  
 Let me read you the entry.    	  見出し項目を読んでみます  
 "Disabled, adjective: crippled, helpless, useless, wrecked,  stalled, maimed, wounded, mangled, lame, mutilated,  run-down, worn-out, weakened, impotent, castrated, paralyzed, handicapped,  senile, decrepit, laid-up, done-up, done-for, done-in  cracked-up, counted-out;  see also hurt, useless and weak.    	  Disabled― 形容詞 「不具の」「無力な」「役に立たない」「体をこわした」 「立ち往生した」「傷ついた」「負傷した」「めった切りにされた」「足が不自由な」「手足を切断された」 「健康を害した」「疲れ果てた」「弱まった」「体力がない」「去勢された」「麻痺した」「障害を持った」 「ボケた」「老いぼれの」「働けなくなった」「終わった」「やられた」「疲れ果てた」 「くじけた」「除外された」 参照： 「傷ついた」「役に立たない」「弱い」  
 Antonyms, healthy, strong, capable."    	  対義語： 「健康な」「強い」「能力がある」  
 I was reading this list out loud to a friend and at first was laughing,  it was so ludicrous,  but I'd just gotten past "mangled," and my voice broke,  and I had to stop and collect myself  from the emotional shock and impact that the assault from these words unleashed.    	  私は友達に読み上げながら 最初は笑っていました 馬鹿げてるんだもの でも「めった切りにされた」と読んだ後 私は涙声になり 言葉がもたらした攻撃からの 感情的ショックと衝撃で 心を落ち着かせる時間が必要でした  
 You know, of course, this is my raggedy old thesaurus  so I'm thinking this must be an ancient print date, right?    	  クタクタになった類義語辞典だから 一昔前のものに違いないと思いましたが  
 But, in fact, the print date was the early 1980s,  when I would have been starting primary school  and forming an understanding of myself outside the family unit  and as related to the other kids and the world around me.    	  ’80年代初期に出版されたものでした 私が小学生になった頃です 家から外へ出て 他の子どもとの接点も増え 自分自身を理解し始める時期です  
 And, needless to say, thank God I wasn't using a thesaurus back then.    	  当時 類義語辞典を開かなかったのが幸いです  
 I mean, from this entry, it would seem that I was born into a world  that perceived someone like me  to have nothing positive whatsoever going for them,  when in fact, today I'm celebrated for the opportunities and adventures  my life has procured.    	  この見出しだけを見たら 私のような人間は 期待できるものは 何もない世界に誕生してしまった感じがします でも実際のところ 人生がもたらしたチャンスや冒険によって 私は称賛されてきたのです  
 So, I immediately went to look up the 2009 online edition,  expecting to find a revision worth noting.    	  そこで すぐに2009年オンライン類義語辞典を調べてみました 特筆に値するものを期待していたのです  
 Here's the updated version of this entry.    	  これが最新版です  
 Unfortunately, it's not much better.    	  残念ながら さほど変わりはありませんでした  
 I find the last two words under "Near Antonyms," particularly unsettling:  "whole" and "wholesome."    	  「対義語に近い」とされる二つの言葉には特に違和感を感じました “完全な” “健康によい” と定義されていました  
 So, it's not just about the words.    	  これは 言葉だけの問題ではありません  
 It's what we believe about people when we name them with these words.    	  このような言葉が先入観を生み出します  
 It's about the values behind the words, and how we construct those values.    	  言葉の価値観や その価値観がいかに生み出されるかが問題です  
 Our language affects our thinking and how we view the world  and how we view other people.    	  言葉は 私たちの思考や世界の見方 他者を見る目に影響を与えます  
 In fact, many ancient societies, including the Greeks and the Romans,  believed that to utter a curse verbally was so powerful,  because to say the thing out loud brought it into existence.    	  ギリシャ人やローマ人などの多くの古代社会では 口に出して呪う効力を確信していました 口に出すと現実になってしまうからです  
 So, what reality do we want to call into existence:  a person who is limited, or a person who's empowered?    	  私たちはどんな現実を生み出したいのでしょう 可能性が限られた人間？それとも 力を与えられた人間？  
 By casually doing something as simple as naming a person, a child,  we might be putting lids and casting shadows on their power.    	  一見すると大したことに映らなくても 子どもが発揮できる本来の力を遮りかねません  
 Wouldn't we want to open doors for them instead?    	  彼らにチャンスを与えてあげたいと思いませんか  
 One such person who opened doors for me was my childhood doctor  at the A.I. duPont Institute in Wilmington, Delaware.    	  私に便宜を与えてくれた人の中に 子どもの時に通った病院のお医者さんがいます  
 His name was Dr. Pizzutillo,  an Italian American, whose name, apparently,  was too difficult for most Americans to pronounce,  so he went by Dr. P.    	  ピッツティロ先生です イタリア系の名前が 難しい発音だったので ピー先生の名で通っていました  
 And Dr. P always wore really colorful bow ties  and had the very perfect disposition to work with children.    	  ピー先生はいつもカラフルな蝶ネクタイをして 子どもと向き合うには完璧な素質を持っていました  
 I loved almost everything about my time spent at this hospital,  with the exception of my physical therapy sessions.    	  この病院で過ごすことが大好きだった私ですが 理学療法だけは大嫌いでした  
 I had to do what seemed like innumerable repetitions of exercises  with these thick, elastic bands -- different colors,  you know -- to help build up my leg muscles,  and I hated these bands more than anything --  I hated them, had names for them. I hated them.    	  何度もやらされた運動がありました 足の筋肉を強化する運動で いろんな色の太いゴムバンドを使うのです このゴムバンドが大嫌いで 私は名前をつけて嫌っていました  
 And, you know, I was already bargaining, as a five year-old child,  with Dr. P to try to get out of doing these exercises,  unsuccessfully, of course.    	  わずか５歳児なのに どうにか逃げ道はないかと ピー先生と駆け引きをしたほどです もちろん上手くはいきませんでした  
 And, one day, he came in to my session --  exhaustive and unforgiving, these sessions --  and he said to me, "Wow. Aimee, you are such a strong and powerful little girl,  I think you're going to break one of those bands.    	  ある日 先生が私の練習を見に来ました 容赦なく 徹底的にやらされる運動です 先生は言いました　“わぁ！エイミーはなんて強い子なんだろう ゴムバンドが切れちゃいそうだ  
 When you do break it, I'm going to give you a hundred bucks."    	  もし切れたら100ドルあげよう”  
 Now, of course, this was a simple ploy on Dr. P's part  to get me to do the exercises I didn't want to do  before the prospect of being the richest five-year-old in the second floor ward,  but what he effectively did for me was reshape an awful daily occurrence  into a new and promising experience for me.    	  もちろん これは運動を促すための ピー先生のやり方でしたが その病棟にいる子どもの中で一番リッチになれる可能性以前に 先生は 毎日やらされる嫌な運動を 期待してしまう別の経験へと 効果的に変えてしまったのです  
 and his declaration of me as a strong and powerful little girl  shaped my own view of myself  as an inherently strong, powerful and athletic person well into the future.    	  先生の洞察力や 幼い私を強い子だと言った先生の言葉は どのくらい私自身の考え方を形成したのかと 思わずにはいられません 将来 本質的に強い運動家になる という考え方です  
 This is an example of how adults in positions of power  can ignite the power of a child.    	  これは それだけのパワーをもった大人が いかに子どもの力を啓発できるかを示しています  
 But, in the previous instances of those thesaurus entries,  our language isn't allowing us to evolve into the reality that we would all want,  the possibility of an individual to see themselves as capable.    	  でも 先ほどの類義語辞典の件では 私たちが使う言葉は 切実に望む現実へ進むことを阻止していて 個人が 自らの有能さを見る可能性を消しています  
 Our language hasn't caught up with the changes in our society,  many of which have been brought about by technology.    	  私たちが使う言葉は 社会の変化に追いついていません テクノロジーにより可能となった変化が多い中  
 Certainly, from a medical standpoint,  my legs, laser surgery for vision impairment,  titanium knees and hip replacements for aging bodies  that are allowing people to more fully engage with their abilities,  and move beyond the limits that nature has imposed on them --  not to mention social networking platforms  allow people to self-identify, to claim their own descriptions of themselves,  so they can go align with global groups of their own choosing.    	  医療的観点から述べると 私の足や視覚障害のためのレーザー手術 人工膝関節や人工股関節などは 人間本来の力に近づくことを可能にし 元々の体力の限界を超えた行動をも可能にするのです ソーシャルネットワーキングはもちろんのこと 自ら名乗りを上げ 自己描写ができることで 自分に合った人たちと世界各地から接点をもてます  
 So, perhaps technology is revealing more clearly to us now  what has always been a truth:  that everyone has something rare and powerful to offer our society,  and that the human ability to adapt is our greatest asset.    	  もしかしたら テクノロジーが明確に示しているのは 誰もが社会に貢献できる― 稀でパワフルなものを持っていて 適応する人間の力とは 我々の最高の強みだということかもしれません  
 The human ability to adapt, it's an interesting thing,  because people have continually wanted to talk to me about overcoming adversity,  and I'm going to make an admission:  This phrase never sat right with me,  and I always felt uneasy trying to answer people's questions about it,  and I think I'm starting to figure out why.    	  適応する人間の力 とは興味深いものです 逆境の克服をテーマに私と話したがる人は常にいました ここで打ち明けてしまいますが 逆境の克服という表現は 違和感があって いつも居心地悪く感じていました その理由が わかり始めたのです  
 Implicit in this phrase of "overcoming adversity"  is the idea that success, or happiness,  is about emerging on the other side of a challenging experience  unscathed or unmarked by the experience,  as if my successes in life have come about from an ability  to sidestep or circumnavigate the presumed pitfalls of a life with prosthetics,  or what other people perceive as my disability.    	  逆境を乗り越える という表現が意図するのは 努力を必要とする体験の向こうに 成功や幸せが現れるという考えです その体験から傷を負うこともなく 変わることもなく まるで 義足での生活 または私の不能さとして見られているものに 存在するであろう落とし穴を回避する力から 人生における成功が生まれたような見方  
 But, in fact, we are changed. We are marked, of course, by a challenge,  whether physically, emotionally or both.    	  でも実際には挑戦するからこそ私たちは変わるのです 肉体的にも感情的にも変わります  
 And I'm going to suggest that this is a good thing.    	  私は好ましいことだと思っています  
 Adversity isn't an obstacle that we need to get around  in order to resume living our life.    	  逆境とは生活をしていく上で 回避しなくてはいけない障害ではなく  
 It's part of our life.    	  生活の一部なのです  
 And I tend to think of it like my shadow.    	  私は影のように考えています  
 Sometimes I see a lot of it, sometimes there's very little,  but it's always with me.    	  くっきり見えたり ほとんど見えなかったり… でも 必ずそばにいる  
 And, certainly, I'm not trying to diminish the impact, the weight, of a person's struggle.    	  私は辛苦に伴う圧迫感や負担を消そうとしているのではありません  
 There is adversity and challenge in life,  and it's all very real and relative to every single person,  but the question isn't whether or not you're going to meet adversity,  but how you're going to meet it.    	  人生には逆境がつきもので 大変であり 相対的なものです 大切なのは 逆境と出会うかどうかではなく いかに逆境と出会うか ということ  
 So, our responsibility is not simply shielding those we care for from adversity,  but preparing them to meet it well.    	  ですから私たちは 大切な人を逆境から かばうのではなく うまく遭遇できるよう準備してあげなくてはいけません  
 And we do a disservice to our kids  when we make them feel that they're not equipped to adapt.    	  自らの適応力がないと子どもが感じるのは 私たち大人の行為が裏目に出ているのです  
 There's an important difference and distinction  between the objective medical fact of my being an amputee  and the subjective societal opinion of whether or not I'm disabled.    	  大切な違いは 客観的に見た 私には足がない という医療的事実と 私が障害者なのかどうか という主観的に見た社会的意見の差です  
 And, truthfully, the only real and consistent disability I've had to confront  is the world ever thinking that I could be described by those definitions.    	  私が向き合ってきた唯一の障害とは 先ほどのような定義で私を表現する世界です  
 In our desire to protect those we care about  by giving them the cold, hard truth about their medical prognosis,  or, indeed, a prognosis on the expected quality of their life,  we have to make sure that we don't put the first brick in a wall  that will actually disable someone.    	  大切にしたい人たちに 客観的で辛い予後を知らせるとき または 病気と向き合う生活を伝えるとき 誰かを不能にしてしまう壁をつくり出さないように 注意しなくてはいけません  
 Perhaps the existing model of only looking at what is broken in you  and how do we fix it, serves to be more disabling to the individual  than the pathology itself.    	  もしかしたら 問題の原因と処置の仕方しか見ない― 現在のやり方は 病状以上の 障害をもたらしているかもしれません  
 By not treating the wholeness of a person,  by not acknowledging their potency,  we are creating another ill on top of whatever natural struggle they might have.    	  人を不完全とみなして 彼らの潜在能力に気づかないと 生まれつき持ち合わせた苦悩に さらなる問題をつくり上げてしまいます  
 We are effectively grading someone's worth to our community.    	  私たちは 人の価値に等級をつけているのです  
 So we need to see through the pathology  and into the range of human capability.    	  病状にとらわれずに 人間の可能性を見抜かなくてはいけません 一番大切なのは 表向きの欠陥と  
 And, most importantly, there's a partnership  between those perceived deficiencies and our greatest creative ability.    	  私たちが併せ持つ最大の創造力には 関係性があるということです  
 So it's not about devaluing, or negating, these more trying times  as something we want to avoid or sweep under the rug,  but instead to find those opportunities wrapped in the adversity.    	  ですから このような苦難を避けたり 隠したいものとして否定するのではなく 逆境に埋まっているチャンスを見つけることです  
 So maybe the idea I want to put out there is  not so much overcoming adversity  as it is opening ourselves up to it,  embracing it, grappling with it,  to use a wrestling term,  maybe even dancing with it.    	  私が言いたいのは 逆境の克服というよりも むしろ逆境に対して 自分自身の可能性を開き その可能性を利用して 取っ組み合いをしながら 格闘し 時には一緒に踊る という考えです  
 And, perhaps, if we see adversity as natural, consistent and useful,  we're less burdened by the presence of it.    	  もしも 逆境が生まれつきのもの 調和したもの 役立つものだとわかれば その存在はそれほど気にならないでしょう  
 This year we celebrate the 200th birthday of Charles Darwin,  and it was 150 years ago, when writing about evolution,  that Darwin illustrated, I think, a truth about the human character.    	  今年はチャールズ・ダーウィンの生誕200年です 進化論は150年前に書かれました ダーウィンは人間の特徴に関する真実を表現したと思います  
 To paraphrase: It's not the strongest of the species that survives,  nor is it the most intelligent that survives;  it is the one that is most adaptable to change.    	  意訳してみると 人間は生き残れる一番強い種ではなく 一番賢い種でもない 変化に対して一番適応できる種である  
 Conflict is the genesis of creation.    	  葛藤は創造の起源である  
 From Darwin's work, amongst others, we can recognize that  the human ability to survive and flourish  is driven by the struggle of the human spirit through conflict  into transformation.    	  ダーウィンのような科学者たちの功績から言えるのは 人間が生き残りをかけ 繁栄する力は 葛藤から変容へと 苦労しながら突き進む人間の精神によって 動かされています  
 So, again, transformation, adaptation, is our greatest human skill.    	  変容と適応とは 人間の偉大なる手腕なのです  
 And, perhaps, until we're tested, we don't know what we're made of.    	  本当のところ 私たちの実体とは試されるまでわからないのではないでしょうか  
 Maybe that's what adversity gives us:  a sense of self, a sense of our own power.    	  逆境が私たちに 自我や自己能力を教えてくれるのではないでしょうか  
 So, we can give ourselves a gift.    	  自分自身へ贈るプレゼントです  
 We can re-imagine adversity as something more than just tough times.    	  逆境は ただの辛い時ではなく それ以上のものとして心に描けます  
 Maybe we can see it as change.    	  変化としても 見てとれるでしょう  
 Adversity is just change that we haven't adapted ourselves to yet.    	  逆境は まだ私たちが順応しきれていない変化に過ぎません  
 I think the greatest adversity that we've created for ourselves  is this idea of normalcy.    	  私たちが作り上げた最大の逆境とは 正常という考えだと思います  
 Now, who's normal?    	  正常な人とは誰のことでしょう  
 There's no normal.    	  正常なんか ありません  
 There's common, there's typical. There's no normal,  and would you want to meet that poor, beige person if they existed?    	  並みや典型的はあっても 正常はないのです 属性を持たないような人に魅力を感じますか？  
   I don't think so.    	  （会場： 笑い声） 感じませんよね  
 If we can change this paradigm from one of achieving normalcy  to one of possibility -- or potency, to be even a little bit more dangerous --  we can release the power of so many more children,  and invite them to engage their rare and valuable abilities with the community.    	  もしも この「正常に近づく」典型を 「可能性」または「潜在能力」 あるいは もう少し危険なものに変えられれば 多くの子どもたちの力を引き出すことができ 彼らの稀で価値ある力を見出せるのです  
 Anthropologists tell us that the one thing  we as humans have always required of our community members  is to be of use, to be able to contribute.    	  人類学者は 我々人間が 常に仲間へ要求してきた唯一の事柄は 役に立ち 貢献できることだと言っています  
 There's evidence that Neanderthals, 60,000 years ago,  carried their elderly and those with serious physical injury,  and perhaps it's because the life experience of survival of these people  proved of value to the community.    	  ネアンデルタール人は６万年前に 長老や負傷者たちを担いだ証拠があります おそらく 苦難を生き抜いた彼らの人生経験が 社会へ貢献する役割があることを 証明したのでしょう  
 They didn't view these people as broken and useless;  they were seen as rare and valuable.    	  彼らは 怪我をした役立たず とは見られずに 数少ない価値ある人 として見られていました  
 A few years ago, I was in a food market in the town where I grew up  in that red zone in northeastern Pennsylvania,  and I was standing over a bushel of tomatoes.    	  数年前 私は子供時代を過ごした― ペンシルバニア北東の共和党寄りの町にある食料品店で トマトを見ていました  
 It was summertime: I had shorts on.    	  夏だったので短パン姿だったのですが  
 I hear this guy, his voice behind me say, "Well, if it isn't Aimee Mullins."    	  背後から “エイミー・マリンズじゃないか” と声がしました  
 And I turn around, and it's this older man. I have no idea who he is.    	  振り返ると高齢の男性が立っていて 彼が誰なのかわからず  
 And I said, "I'm sorry, sir, have we met? I don't remember meeting you."    	  “すみません 以前にお会いした事が？見覚えがないもので” と言うと  
 He said, "Well, you wouldn't remember meeting me.    	  “無理はないさ  
 I mean, when we met I was delivering you from your mother's womb."    	  君が生まれるとき 私がお産をさせていたんだよ”  
   Oh, that guy.    	  （会場： 笑い声） あら あの方ね  
 And, but of course, actually, it did click.    	  ピンと来ました  
 This man was Dr. Kean,  a man that I had only known about through my mother's stories of that day,  because, of course, typical fashion, I arrived late for my birthday by two weeks.    	  彼はキーン先生でした 私が生まれた日のことは母から聞いていました 私は出産予定日を２週間遅れて生まれてきたので  
 And so my mother's prenatal physician had gone on vacation,  so the man who delivered me was a complete stranger to my parents.    	  担当の産婦人科医は休暇に出てしまい 結局 お産に立ち会ったのは初対面の医師だったのです  
 And, because I was born without the fibula bones,  and had feet turned in, and a few toes in this foot and a few toes in that,  he had to be the bearer -- this stranger had to be the bearer of bad news.    	  私は生まれつき腓骨が無く 足は内側に曲がり 指も足に入り込み 初対面である先生が この事実を両親に伝えなくてはいけませんでした  
 He said to me, "I had to give this prognosis to your parents  that you would never walk,  and you would never have the kind of mobility that other kids have  or any kind of life of independence,  and you've been making liar out of me ever since."    	  先生曰く “君が将来歩くことはできず 他の子どものように 動き回るのは無理　つきっきりの生活になると 両親に伝えなくちゃいけなかった なのに 君は僕を嘘つきにしてくれたね”  
     The extraordinary thing is that he said he had saved  newspaper clippings throughout my whole childhood,  whether winning a second grade spelling bee,  marching with the Girl Scouts, you know, the Halloween parade,  winning my college scholarship, or any of my sports victories,  and he was using it, and integrating it into teaching resident students,  med students from Hahnemann Medical School and Hershey Medical School.    	  （会場： 笑い声） （拍手） 感激したのは 私が子どものとき 新聞に出ると 先生は切りぬきを取っておいたそうです ２年生のスペリング競争で勝ったもの ガールスカウトの行進やハロウィンパレード 大学の奨学金獲得やスポーツ競技での優勝など 先生はその記事を使って研修医師を教えたり ハーネマン医療大学や ハーシー医療大学の学生を教えていました  
 And he called this part of the course the X Factor,  the potential of the human will. No prognosis can account for how powerful this could be  as a determinant in the quality of someone's life.    	  そして先生は講義のこの部分を 人間の意思がもつ潜在能力と呼んでいました 病気と向き合う生活を左右する潜在能力が  
 And Dr. Kean went on to tell me,  he said, "In my experience, unless repeatedly told otherwise,  and even if given a modicum of support,  if left to their own devices, a child will achieve."    	  どれだけ力を発揮するのか 予測はできません キーン先生は さらにこう言いました “私の経験から言うと 支えがわずかであっても 繰返し否定的なことを言われなければ 自ら持ち合わせたものだけになると 子どもは やってのけるものだ”  
 See, Dr. Kean made that shift in thinking.    	  キーン先生は 考え方に変化をもたらしました  
 He understood that there's a difference between the medical condition  and what someone might do with it.    	  彼は医療的状況とそれをどのようにするかという２つには 違いがあることを理解したのです  
 And there's been a shift in my thinking over time,  in that, if you had asked me at 15 years old,  if I would have traded prosthetics for flesh-and-bone legs,  I wouldn't have hesitated for a second.    	  時間が経過するうちに私の考え方にも変化がありました もしも 15歳の私に 義足を 本物の足と交換するかと尋ねたら 私は少しも躊躇することはなかったでしょう  
 I aspired to that kind of normalcy back then.    	  当時は皆と同じようになりたかったのです  
 But if you ask me today, I'm not so sure.    	  でも今 尋ねられたら わかりません  
 And it's because of the experiences I've had with them,  not in spite of the experiences I've had with them.    	  私が経験してきたことを考えてのことです 経験したことにも関わらず というのではありません  
 And perhaps this shift in me has happened  because I've been exposed to more people who have opened doors for me  than those who have put lids and cast shadows on me.    	  おそらく 気の持ちように変化が現れた理由は 私の可能性を遮った人よりも 門戸を開いてくれた人が多かったからです  
 See, all you really need is one person  If you can hand somebody the key to their own power --  the human spirit is so receptive -- if you can do that  and open a door for someone at a crucial moment,  you are educating them in the best sense.    	  必要なのは誰か１人 可能性の見抜き方が伝授されれば 自分の道が開けます 極めて重要な時に 誰かに力を解き放つ鍵を渡し 門戸を開いてあげるのは 人間の心の受容力を考えると 最高の育て方と言えます  
 You're teaching them to open doors for themselves.    	  自ら門戸を開くことを教えているのです  
 In fact, the exact meaning of the word "educate"  comes from the root word "educe."    	  「教育する」 - educate - という言葉の語源は educe という言葉から来ていて  
 It means "to bring forth what is within,  to bring out potential."    	  内面にあるものを生む 潜在能力を引き出す という意味です  
 So again, which potential do we want to bring out?    	  さあ どんな潜在能力を私たちは引き出したいのでしょう？  
 There was a case study done in 1960s Britain,  when they were moving from grammar schools to comprehensive schools.    	  ’60年代に英国で行われた こんな事例研究があります 当時 中等学校から総合中等学校に編成された時期にあり  
 It's called the streaming trials. We call it "tracking" here in the States.    	  米国の能力別学級編成にあたる試みがありました  
 It's separating students from A, B, C, D and so on.    	  生徒をA B C Dとグループに分け  
 And the "A students" get the tougher curriculum, the best teachers, etc.    	  Aグループのカリキュラムは高水準で 担当教師もトップクラスというものです  
 Well, they took, over a three-month period,  D-level students, gave them A's,  told them they were "A's," told them they were bright,  and at the end of this three-month period,  And, of course, the heartbreaking, flip side of this study,  is that they took the "A students" and told them they were "D's."    	  ３ヶ月間コースの始めに Dレベルの生徒は Aレベルの賢い学生だと伝えられていました ３ヶ月が過ぎると 彼らの成績はAレベルに到達したのです もちろん この研究にはやるせない裏があり Aレベルの生徒はDレベルだと伝えられ 中退した生徒を除き 学校に残っていた生徒は  
 And that's what happened at the end of that three-month period.    	  それが３ヶ月後に現実となってしまいました  
 A crucial part of this case study was that the teachers were duped too.    	  この事例研究の決定的な要素は教師もだまされていたことです  
 The teachers didn't know a switch had been made.    	  教師も そんなすり替えがあったとは知らず  
 They were simply told, "These are the 'A-students,' these are the 'D-students.'"  And that's how they went about teaching them and treating them.    	  こっちがA　そっちがDとだけ伝えられていました それが生徒の教え方や対応の仕方につながったのです  
 So, I think that the only true disability is a crushed spirit,  a spirit that's been crushed doesn't have hope,  it doesn't see beauty,  it no longer has our natural, childlike curiosity  and our innate ability to imagine.    	  ここから言えるのは 唯一 本当のハンディキャップと言えるのは 打ちのめされた心だと思います 打ちのめされ希望がもてない心 美点を見れず 持ち合わせているはずの子どものような好奇心がなくなり 生まれつき持っている想像力がなくなった状態  
 If instead, we can bolster a human spirit to keep hope,  to see beauty in themselves and others,  to be curious and imaginative,  then we are truly using our power well.    	  もしも 私たちが希望を保ち 自分自身や他者がもつ美点を見いだし 好奇心と想像力をもつ心に 力を吹き込めれば 私たちは力を真から発揮できるのです  
 When a spirit has those qualities, we are able to create new realities  and new ways of being.    	  心が そのような特性をもつと 私たちは新しい現実や 新しいあり方を創りだせます  
 I'd like to leave you with a poem  by a fourteenth-century Persian poet named Hafiz  that my friend, Jacques Dembois told me about,  and the poem is called "The God Who Only Knows Four Words":  "Every child has known God,  not the God of names,  not the God of don'ts,  but the God who only knows four words and keeps repeating them,  saying, 'Come dance with me.    	  最後に詩を朗読します 14世紀のペルシャの詩人 ハフィスの詩で 私の友人が教えてくれました “４つの言葉しか知らない神様” という詩です “どの子どもも 神様を知っている 悪口の神様ではない 禁制の神様でもない ４つの言葉しか知らない神様だ　神様は繰り返し言う Come dance with me ― 私と共に踊ろうよ”  
 Come, dance with me. Come, dance with me.'"  Thank you.    	  私と共に踊ろうよ ありがとう  
 You know, what I do is write for children,  and I'm probably America's  most widely read children's author, in fact.    	  ご存知のように 私は児童向けの本を執筆しており おそらく 全米で 最も広く読まれている児童文学作家です  
 And I always tell people  that I don't want to show up looking like a scientist.    	  人々にはいつも 科学者のような格好をして人前に出たくないと伝えています  
 You can have me as a farmer, or in leathers,  and no one has ever chose farmer.    	  農家として もしくは全身レザーの格好でならいいのですが 農家として呼んでくれる人はいません  
 I'm here today to talk to you  about circles and epiphanies.    	  今日皆さんにお話したいのは 輪とひらめきについてです  
 And you know, an epiphany  is usually something you find that you dropped someplace.    	  ご存知のようにひらめきとは 通常どこかで 落としたものを見つけるようなものです  
 You've just got to go around the block  to see it as an epiphany.    	  ひらめきかどうかを判断するには 経験を積むしかありません  
 That's a painting of a circle.    	  これは輪の絵です  
 A friend of mine did that -- Richard Bollingbroke.    	  友人であるリチャード・ボーリングブロックが描きました  
 It's the kind of complicated circle  that I'm going to tell you about.    	  これからお話するのは このような複雑な輪についてです  
 My circle began back in the '60s  in high school in Stow, Ohio  where I was the class queer.    	  私の輪が始まったのは60年代の オハイオ州ストーの高校の頃です 私はクラスの変わり者でした  
 I was the guy beaten up bloody  every week in the boys' room,  until one teacher saved my life.    	  毎週 男子トイレで 血が出るほどボコボコにされていました そんな時 ある教師が私の人生を救ってくれたのです  
 She saved my life by letting me go to the bathroom  in the teachers' lounge.    	  彼女は 職員室にあるトイレの使用を許可することで 私の人生を救ってくれたのです  
 She did it in secret.    	  彼女はそれを内緒にし  
 She did it for three years.    	  3年間続けてくれました  
 And I had to get out of town.    	  その後 私は街を出ました  
 I had a thumb, I had 85 dollars,  and I ended up in San Francisco, California --  met a lover --  and back in the '80s, found it necessary  to begin work on AIDS organizations.    	  ヒッチハイクと所持金85ドルで カリフォルニア州サンフランシスコに行き着き 愛する人に出会いました 80年代の頃 AIDS支援団体で働き始めることが必要だと気づきました  
 About three or four years ago,  I got a phone call in the middle of the night  from that teacher, Mrs. Posten,  who said, "I need to see you.    	  3、4年前 真夜中にあの時の先生の ポステンさんから電話がありました 「あなたに会う必要があるの  
 I'm disappointed  that we never got to know each other as adults.    	  大人同士で 知り合えなかったのはとても残念だわ  
 Could you please come to Ohio,  and please bring that man  that I know you have found by now.    	  オハイオ州に来てくれない？ そして 大人となった あなたに会いたい  
 And I should mention  that I have pancreatic cancer,  and I'd like you to please  be quick about this."    	  伝えたいことがもう一つあって 私 膵臓がんなの お願いだから 早く会いに来てくれない？」  
 Well, the next day we were in Cleveland.    	  次の日 私たちはクリーブランドにいました  
 We took a look at her, we laughed, we cried,  and we knew that she needed to be in a hospice.    	  彼女を見て お互い笑い合い 泣き合い 彼女はホスピスに入る必要があることを知りました  
 We found her one, we got her there,  and we took care of her  and watched over her family,  because it was necessary.    	  ホスピスを探し出し 彼女をそこに連れ 彼女の世話をし 彼女の家族の世話をしました なぜなら それは必要なことであり  
 It's something we knew how to do.    	  どうするべきか分かっていたからです  
 And just as the woman who wanted to know me as an adult  got to know me,  she turned into a box of ashes  and was placed in my hands.    	  そして大人となった私と再会を望んだ女性が 私と再会を果たした後 彼女は遺灰箱に変わり 私の手の平に置かれました  
 And what had happened  was the circle had closed,  it had become a circle --  and that epiphany I talked about  presented itself.    	  何が起きたかというと 輪は閉じ それは輪となったのです そして 私が話したあのひらめきが 生じたのです  
 The epiphany is  that death is a part of life.    	  そのひらめきとは 死が人生の一部であることです  
 She saved my life;  I and my partner saved hers.    	  彼女は私の人生を救い 私と私のパートナーは彼女の人生を救いました  
 And you know, that part of life needs everything  that the rest of life does.    	  こういった人生の場面で 余生に必要な物事が求められています  
 It needs truth and beauty,  and I'm so happy it's been mentioned so much here today.    	  それが真実や美しさです 今日ここでお伝えできることをうれしく思います  
 It also needs --  it needs dignity,  love and pleasure,  and it's our job to hand those things out.    	  さらに— 尊厳と 愛と喜びも必要です それらに手を差し伸べるのは私たちの役目です  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 As an artist,  connection is very important to me.    	  芸術家として私は つながりをとても大切にしています  
 Through my work I'm trying to articulate  that humans are not separate from nature  and that everything is interconnected.    	  人間は自然と切り離された存在ではなく 全てはつながっているのだということを 作品を通して示したいと思っています  
 I first went to Antarctica almost 10 years ago,  where I saw my first icebergs.    	  10年近く前に初めて南極を訪れ 初めて氷山を見たとき  
 I was in awe.    	  畏敬の念に打たれました  
 My heart beat fast, my head was dizzy,  trying to comprehend what it was that stood in front of me.    	  胸がドキドキして めまいを感じながら 目の前にあるのが何物なのか 理解しようとしました  
 The icebergs around me  were almost 200 feet out of the water,  and I could only help but wonder  that this was one snowflake  on top of another snowflake,  year after year.    	  周りにある氷山はみな 水面から60メートル近くそそり立っていました 雪のひとひら ひとひらが 長年に渡って降り積もって これができたのだろうかと 思わずにいられませんでした  
 Icebergs are born  when they calve off of glaciers  or break off of ice shelves.    	  氷山とは 氷河や棚氷から分離した 氷の塊です  
 Each iceberg has its own individual personality.    	  氷山には それぞれ個性があります  
 They have a distinct way  of interacting with their environment  and their experiences.    	  周囲の環境や 自らの体験への対し方に 独自の流儀を持っています  
 Some refuse to give up  and hold on to the bitter end,  while others can't take it anymore  and crumble in a fit of dramatic passion.    	  最後まであきらめずに 氷山の形を保とうとするものもあれば 耐えきれずに 劇的な感情の爆発に崩れ落ちるものもあります  
 It's easy to think, when you look at an iceberg,  that they're isolated,  that they're separate and alone,  much like we as humans sometimes view ourselves.    	  氷山を人になぞらえて 孤独なのだなとか ひとりぼっちなのだなと 考えがちです  
 But the reality is far from it.    	  でも実際はそうではありません  
 As an iceberg melts,  I am breathing in  its ancient atmosphere.    	  氷山が解けるとき 私が吸っているのは 太古の空気なのです  
 As the iceberg melts,  it is releasing mineral-rich fresh water  that nourishes many forms of life.    	  氷山が解けるとき ミネラルに富んだ真水となって 多くの生命を育むのです  
 I approach photographing these icebergs  as if I'm making portraits of my ancestors,  knowing that in these individual moments  they exist in that way  It is not a death when they melt;  it is not an end,  but a continuation  of their path through the cycle of life.    	  私は ご先祖の肖像写真を撮るつもりで 氷山の写真を撮っています 氷山はそのとき そのときの固有の姿を見せ 同じ姿を見せることは二度とないのだと わかっているからです 氷山が解けるのは 死とは違います 終わりではなく 命の連環を通して つながっていくのです  
 Some of the ice in the icebergs that I photograph is very young --  a couple thousand years old.    	  私が撮った氷山のあるものはとても若く ほんの2,000歳くらい  
 And some of the ice  is over 100,000 years old.    	  でも中には 10万年以上前の氷もあります  
 The last pictures I'd like to show you  are of an iceberg that I photographed in Qeqetarsuaq, Greenland.    	  お見せしたい最後の写真は グリーンランドの キアーターティベジアク島で撮った 氷山の写真です  
 It's a very rare occasion  that you get to actually witness  an iceberg rolling.    	  氷山が回転するのを 実際に目にする機会は 滅多にありません  
 So here it is.    	  それをお見せしましょう  
 You can see on the left side a small boat.    	  左に小さなボートが見えます  
 That's about a 15-foot boat.    	  4.5メートルほどの長さのボートです  
 to the shape of the iceberg  and where it is at the waterline.    	  氷山の形と 水面に接している部分に  
 You can see here, it begins to roll,  and the boat has moved to the other side, and the man is standing there.    	  注目して下さい ここで回転が始まり ボートは反対側に抜け 人が立ち上がっています  
 This is an average-size Greenlandic iceberg.    	  これはグリーンランドで標準的な大きさの氷山で  
 It's about 120 feet above the water,  or 40 meters.    	  高さが120フィート つまり40メートルほどあります  
 And this video is real time.    	  実際の速度の映像でご覧いただきましょう  
   And just like that,  the iceberg shows you a different side of its personality.    	   このように 氷山が別な顔を見せてくれたのです  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとう  
 I want you to imagine two couples  in the middle of 1979  on the exact same day, at the exact same moment,  each conceiving a baby -- okay?    	  二組のカップルが 1979年の中頃 まったく同じ日 同じ瞬間に 赤ちゃんを授かったとします  
 So two couples each conceiving one baby.    	  二組共 赤ちゃんができたのです  
 Now I don't want you to spend too much time imagining the conception,  because if you spend all that time imagining that conception,  you're not going to listen to me.    	  受胎した過程は あまり考えないでください 考えすぎると うわの空になりますから  
 So just imagine that for a moment.    	  想像を少しだけしてください  
 And in this scenario,  the sperm is carrying a Y chromosome,  meeting that X chromosome of the egg.    	  一組のカップルでは Y染色体をもつ精子が 卵子のX染色体と 出会うとします  
 And in the other case,  the sperm is carrying an X chromosome,  meeting the X chromosome of the egg.    	  もう1つのカップルでは X染色体をもつ精子が 卵子のX染色体と出会います  
 Both are viable; both take off.    	  どちらも生存可能としましょう  
 We'll come back to these people later.    	  この話は また後ほど  
 So I wear two hats  in most of what I do.    	  わたしは二つの事柄に 携わっています  
 As the one hat,  I do history of anatomy.    	  一つは 解剖学の歴史です  
 I'm a historian by training,  and what I study in that case  is the way that people have dealt with anatomy --  meaning human bodies, animal bodies --  how they dealt with bodily fluids, concepts of bodies;  how have they thought about bodies.    	  専門は歴史なので この場合は 今までの人間や動物の体の扱われ方を 研究しています 体液の扱い方や 体という概念 体に対する考え方などです  
 is as an activist,  as a patient advocate --  or, as I sometimes say, as an impatient advocate --  for people who are patients of doctors.    	  もう一つは 患者の代弁をする 活動をしています 医者にかかる患者のために 尽力しています  
 In that case, what I've worked with  is people who have body types  that challenge social norms.    	  今まで活動してきたのは 社会において逸脱するような 体型をもつ方々の活動です  
 So some of what I've worked on, for example,  is people who are conjoined twins --  two people within one body.    	  例えば 結合双生児 二人の体が結合している人たちや  
 Some of what I've worked on is people who have dwarfism --  so people who are much shorter than typical.    	  小人症の人たち つまり 極めて身長の低い人たちです  
 And a lot of what I've worked on  is people who have atypical sex --  so people who don't have the standard male  or the standard female body types.    	  少数派の性別をもつ人たちの 取り組みをしてきました 標準的な男性 もしくは 女性の体型をもたない人たちです  
 And as a general term, we can use the term intersex for this.    	  半陰陽と呼ばれているもので  
 Intersex comes in a lot of different forms.    	  様々な状態があります  
 that isn't standard for male or female.    	  標準的な男性や  
 So in one instance,  you can have somebody who has an XY chromosomal basis,  and that SRY gene on the Y chromosome  tells the proto-gonads, which we all have in the fetal life,  to become testes.    	  女性ではない例を いくつかあげてみましょう 例えば XY染色体をもつ人のY染色体上にある SRY遺伝子は 胎児のときに 性腺から 精巣をつくる指示を出します  
 And so in the fetal life the testes are pumping out testosterone.    	  精巣から男性ホルモンが分泌されますが  
 But because this individual lacks receptors  to hear that testosterone,  the body doesn't react to the testosterone.    	  この個人の場合は 男性ホルモン受容体が欠けているため 体が男性ホルモンを感知せず 反応しません  
 And this is a syndrome called androgen insensitivity syndrome.    	  これはアンドロゲン不応症と呼ばれています  
 So lots of levels of testosterone, but no reaction to it.    	  男性ホルモンがどんどん出ても まったく感知しません  
 As a consequence, the body develops  more along the female typical path.    	  その結果 体は女性の体のように 発達します  
 When the child is born, she looks like a girl.    	  出生時は女児のようなので  
 She is a girl. She is raised as a girl.    	  女の子として育てられます  
 And it's often not until she hits puberty  and she's growing and developing breasts,  but she's not getting her period,  that somebody figures out something's up here.    	  多くの場合 思春期になり 発育して 胸が大きくなっても 初潮がないために 何かがおかしいと気づきます  
 And they do some tests and figure out  that, instead of having ovaries inside and a uterus,  she actually has testes inside, and she has a Y chromosome.    	  検査をすると 卵巣や子宮の代わりに 精巣があって Y染色体をもっていることがわかります  
 Now what's important to understand  is you may think of this person as really being male,  but they're really not.    	  ここで重要なのは この人は本来男性だと思うかもしれませんが そうではないのです  
 Females, like males,  have in our bodies something called the adrenal glands.    	  女性も男性も 副腎という器官が  
 They're in the back of our body.    	  体の後ろ側にあります  
 And the adrenal glands make androgens,  which are a masculinizing hormone.    	  副腎はアンドロゲン つまり 男性ホルモンを分泌します わたしの染色体構造は  
 Most females like me -- I believe myself to be a typical female --  I don't actually know my chromosomal make-up  but I think I'm probably typical --  most females like me are actually androgen-sensitive.    	  標準的だと思いますが わたしを含むほとんどの女性は アンドロゲンの影響を受けています アンドロゲンを分泌し 反応する結果 わたしたちのような女性の脳は  
 We're making androgen, and we're responding to androgens.    	  アンドロゲン不応症で 精巣をもって生まれた女性よりも  
 has actually had a brain exposed to more androgens  than the woman born with testes  who has androgen insensitivity syndrome.    	  より多くのアンドロゲンに さらされることになります 性別とは非常に複雑なので  
 So sex is really complicated; it's not just that intersex people  in some ways, they can be all over the place.    	  半陰陽の人たちは性別の中間にいると 位置づけることはできません  
 Another example:  a few years ago I got a call from a man who was 19 years old,  who was born a boy, raised a boy,  had a girlfriend, had sex with his girlfriend,  had a life as a guy  and had just found out that he had ovaries and a uterus inside.    	  他の事例です 数年前 19歳の男性から電話がありました 男児として生まれ 育てられ 彼女がいて その女の子と性交渉もあり 男性として生きてきたのに 卵巣と子宮があることがわかったのです  
 What he had was an extreme form  of a condition called congenital adrenal hyperplasia.    	  先天性副腎過形成と呼ばれるもので 彼は その極度のケースでした  
 He had XX chromosomes,  and in the womb,  his adrenal glands were in such high gear  that it created, essentially, a masculine hormonal environment.    	  彼はXX染色体をもち 子宮にいる間 彼の副腎はあまりに活発だったので 男性ホルモン環境をつくりあげてしまいました  
 And as a consequence, his genitals were masculinzed,  his brain was subject  to the more typical masculine component of hormones.    	  その結果 男性器が形成され 脳は より典型的な 男性ホルモン要素に反応していたのです  
 And he was born looking like a boy -- nobody suspected anything.    	  出生時はまるで男児で 誰も疑いはしませんでした  
 And it was only when he had reached the age of 19  that he began to have enough medical problems  actually from menstruating internally,  that doctors figured out that, in fact, he was female internally.    	  それが19歳になったとき 医学的問題を抱え始めたのです 体内で月経がはじまり 内面的には女性だと医師がつきとめました  
 Okay, so just one more quick example  of a way you can have intersex.    	  では 手短に 半陰陽の別の例を出します  
 Some people who have XX chromosomes  develop what are called ovotestis,  which is when you have ovarian tissue  with testicular tissue wrapped around it.    	  XX染色体をもつ人に 卵精巣が発達する人がいます 卵巣組織が精巣組織で 覆われているのです  
 And we're not exactly sure why that happens.    	  理由は完全にはわからないものの  
 So sex can come in lots of different varieties.    	  性別とは 多様なものになり得るのです  
 that children with these kinds of bodies --  whether it's dwarfism, or it's conjoined twinning,  or it's an intersex type --  are often normalized by surgeons  is not because it actually leaves them better off  in terms of physical health.    	  このような体をもつ子どもたちが 小人症であっても 結合双生児であっても 半陰陽者であっても しばしば 外科的な 整形手術を行う理由は 健康が向上するからでは ありません  
 In many cases, people are actually perfectly healthy.    	  彼らは 極めて健康であることが多いのです  
 The reason they're often subject to various kinds of surgeries  is because they threaten our social categories.    	  様々な手術をすることが多い理由は 社会的分類があることや  
 that a particular kind of anatomy comes with a particular identity.    	  体の特徴で アイデンティティが決まるという  
 So we have the concept that what it means to be a woman  is to have a female identity;  what it means to be a black person is, allegedly,  is to have an African anatomy  in terms of your history.    	  概念に基づいているためです 女性であるには 女性の特性がなくてはならない 黒人であるには 家系がアフリカ人の体でなければならない 我々は そんな概念をもっています  
 And so we have this terribly simplistic idea.    	  その概念があまりにも単純すぎるため  
 And when we're faced with a body  that actually presents us something quite different,  it startles us in terms of those categorizations.    	  きわめて差異のある体を見ると そのような分類ができなくなり 戸惑ってしまうのです  
 So we have a lot of very romantic ideas in our culture  about individualism.    	  アメリカは個人主義という 理想主義的な  
 And our nation's really founded on a very romantic concept of individualism.    	  概念のもとに築かれています  
 Well you can imagine how startling then it is  when you have children that are born  who are two people inside of one body.    	  体ひとつで 二人の子どもが生まれた場合 どれだけ戸惑うのか 想像できるでしょう  
 Where I ran into the most heat from this most recently  was last year the South African runner, Caster Semenya,  had her sex called into question at the International Games in Berlin.    	  最近の論争では去年 南アフリカのランナー キャスター・セメンヤが世界陸上で 性別を疑われました  
 I had a lot of journalists calling me, asking me,  "Which is the test they're going to run  that will tell us whether or not  Caster Semenya is male or female?"    	  わたしはジャーナリストから電話で質問されました “キャスター・セメンヤの性別を 判別する検査は どの検査ですか？”  
 And I had to explain to the journalists there isn't such a test.    	  そんな検査はないと答えました  
 that sex is complicated enough  that we have to admit  nature doesn't draw the line for us between male and female,  or between male and intersex and female and intersex;  we actually draw that line on nature.    	  性別とは複雑であると わかっている今 自然界は男女の区別や 男 半陰陽 女の区別をしないことを 我々は認めなくてはいけません  
 So what we have is a sort of situation  where the farther our science goes,  the more we have to admit to ourselves  that these categories  that we thought of as stable anatomical categories  that mapped very simply  are a lot more fuzzy than we thought.    	  線を引いているのは私たちです 私たちには 科学が進歩すればするほど 認めなくてはいけないものがあります アイデンティティの分類として 位置づけられたものは 体の構造を分類する揺るぎないものだと 思われていたのに 予想以上に曖昧だったのです  
 And it's not just in terms of sex.    	  性別だけではなく  
 It's also in terms of race,  which turns out to be vastly more complicated  than our terminology has allowed.    	  人種に関しても 用語が意図する以上に ずっと複雑です  
 As we look, we get into all sorts of uncomfortable areas.    	  やっかいな問題は多々あります  
 We look, for example, about the fact  that we share at least 95 percent of our DNA  with chimpanzees.    	  例えば 人間とチンパンジーは DNAの少なくとも95%が 同じです  
 What are we to make of the fact  that we differ from them only really by a few nucleotides?    	  少ししか変わりがないという事実から 何を考えればいいのでしょうか  
 And as we get farther and farther with our science,  we get more and more into a discomforted zone  where we have to acknowledge  that the simplistic categories we've had  are probably overly simplistic.    	  科学が より発達すればするほど より困惑する域へと近づき 単純な分類が あまりにも単純であることを 認めなくてはいけなくなります  
 So we're seeing this  in all sorts of places in human life.    	  これは あらゆる場面で見られます  
 in our culture today, in the United States today,  is battles over the beginning of life and the end of life.    	  例えば 我が国アメリカでは 命の始まりと終わりに関する  
 We have difficult conversations  about at what point we decide a body becomes a human,  such that it has a different right than a fetal life.    	  論争がおきています 胎児とは別の権利があるという点から どの時点で人が人間になるのかを決めるのか  
 We have very difficult conversations nowadays --  about the question of when somebody's dead.    	  難しい対話がなされています また 人はいつ死亡するのかという問題も  
 In the past, our ancestors never had to struggle so much  with this question of when somebody was dead.    	  医学界ほど広がりは見せていませんが 難しい問題です 人がいつ死亡したのかという問題は  
 At most, they'd stick a feather on somebody's nose,  and if it twitched, they didn't bury them yet.    	  昔はこれほどまで難しくはありませんでした 鼻の下を羽根で触ったとき  
 If it stopped twitching, you bury them.    	  ぴくっと動けば 埋葬せず  
 But today, we have a situation  where we want to take vital organs out of beings  and give them to other beings.    	  動きが止まれば 埋葬したものですが 今は 生命をつかさどる器官を 取り出して 他者へと 移植するようになりました  
 And as a consequence,  we're stuck with having to struggle with this really difficult question  about who's dead,  and this leads us to a really difficult situation  where we don't have such simple categories as we've had before.    	  その結果 人の死にまつわる論争が 繰り広げられるのです これは 昔のような単純な分類では通用しない 非常に難しい状況をつくりあげます  
 Now you might think that all this breaking-down of categories  would make somebody like me really happy.    	  細かく分類することで わたしのような人間が 喜ぶと思うかもしれません  
 I'm a political progressive, I defend people with unusual bodies,  but I have to admit to you that it makes me nervous.    	  わたしたちは特異な体を持つ人々のために活動をしていますが このようなことは心配の種です  
 Understanding that these categories  are really much more unstable than we thought makes me tense.    	  このような分類が想像以上に 不安定であることが  
 from the point of view of thinking about democracy.    	  民主主義の立場から見て 気がかりです  
 So in order to tell you about that tension,  I have to first admit to you that I'm a huge fan of the Founding Fathers.    	  気がかりになることを説明しましょう わたしは アメリカ合衆国建国の父たちの大ファンです  
 I know they were racists, I know they were sexist,  but they were great.    	  彼らは人種差別や性差別をしました けれども 立派な人たちだったのです  
 I mean, they were so brave and so bold  and so radical in what they did  that I find myself watching that cheesy musical "1776" every few years,  and it's not because of the music, which is totally forgettable.    	  彼らは とても勇敢で 行動も革新的でした わたしは彼らが題材のミュージカル「1776年」をよく見ています 音楽が好きなのではありません  
 It's because of what happened in 1776  with the Founding Fathers.    	  建国の父たちがもたらした 1776年の出来事があるからです  
 The Founding Fathers were, for my point of view,  the original anatomical activists,  and this is why.    	  建国の父たちは 体に対する 最初の活動家だと思います その理由に  
 What they rejected was an anatomical concept  and replaced it with another one  that was radical and beautiful and held us for 200 years.    	  彼らは体の構造の概念を捨て その後200年にわたって続いた 革新的なものに代えました  
 So as you all recall,  what our Founding Fathers were rejecting was a concept of monarchy,  and the monarchy was basically based  on a very simplistic concept of anatomy.    	  ご存知のとおり 建国の父たちは君主制を受け付けませんでした 君主制は非常に単純な 体の概念に基づいていました  
 The monarchs of the old world  didn't have a concept of DNA,  but they did have a concept of birthright.    	  旧世界の君主たちに DNAの概念はありませんでしたが 生得権の概念はもっていました  
 They had a concept of blue blood.    	  貴族の血統です  
 They had the idea that the people who would be in political power  should be in political power  because of the blood being passed down  from grandfather to father to son and so forth.    	  彼らの考え方は 先祖から子孫へと 血統によって 政治の権力を 受け継ぐべき というものでした  
 The Founding Fathers rejected that idea,  and they replaced it with a new anatomical concept,  and that concept  was all men are created equal.    	  建国の父たちは その概念を拒否し 体の概念と取り代えたのです それは 人間は皆 平等だというものでした  
 They leveled that playing field  and decided the anatomy that mattered  was the commonality of anatomy,  not the difference in anatomy,  and that was a really radical thing to do.    	  彼らが定めたものは 重要なのは 体の共通性であって 違いではないというものでした それは非常に革新的でした  
 because they were part of an Enlightenment system  where two things were growing up together.    	  当時は啓蒙時代だったことも 影響していました  
 And that was democracy growing up,  but it was also science growing up at the same time.    	  啓蒙時代には民主主義と 科学の二つが 同時に発展していました  
 And it's really clear, if you look at the history of the Founding Fathers,  a lot of them were very interested in science,  and they were interested in a concept  of a naturalistic world.    	  建国の父たちを見ると明らかですが 多くは科学に関心をもっており 自然主義的な世界の概念に 関心を寄せていました  
 They were moving away from supernatural explanations,  and they were rejecting things like a supernatural concept of power,  where it transmitted  because of a very vague concept of birthright.    	  彼らは超自然的解釈から遠のき 権力という超自然的な概念を拒絶しました 生得権という 曖昧な概念のために伝わっていた権力です  
 They were moving towards a naturalistic concept.    	  彼らは自然主義の概念に移行していきました  
 And if you look, for example, in the Declaration of Independence,  they talk about nature and nature's God.    	  アメリカ独立宣言では 自然法と 自然の神の法に触れています  
 They don't talk about God and God's nature.    	  神や神の自然ではありません  
 They're talking about the power of nature  to tell us who we are.    	  我々が誰なのか 自然の力を使って説明しています  
 So as part of that,  they were coming to us with a concept  that was about anatomical commonality.    	  その中で 彼らは体の共通性に関する 概念をもたらしました  
 the Civil Rights movement of the future.    	  そうすることで見事に 後の公民権活動を  
 They didn't think of it that way, but they did it for us, and it was great.    	  確立していました その意図はなくても 結果的にそうなったのです  
 So what happened years afterward?    	  その後 どうなったかと言うと  
 What happened was women, for example,  who wanted the right to vote,  took the Founding Fathers' concept  of anatomical commonality being more important  than anatomical difference  and said, "The fact that we have a uterus and ovaries  to mean that we shouldn't have the right to vote,  the right to full citizenship,  the right to own property, etc., etc."    	  選挙権を得ようとしていた 女性たちは 建国の父たちが掲げた 体の共通性は違いよりも重要だという 概念を用いて 言いました “子宮や卵巣があるという差は 選挙権や公民権や不動産の獲得を 妨げるには 十分な理由にはならない”  
 And women successfully argued that.    	  女性たちの抗議は 見事な成果を出しました  
 Next came the successful Civil Rights movement,  talking about, "Ain't I a woman?"    	  次に公民権活動に成果が出ました “わたしは女ではないのか？” と語った ソジャーナ・トゥルースなどが代表的です  
 on the marching lines of the Civil Rights movement  saying, "I am a man."    	  公民権活動のデモ行進では “わたしは男だ”と言った  
 Again, people of color  appealing to a commonality of anatomy over a difference of anatomy,  again, successfully.    	  男性がいたり 体の違いではなく共通性を 訴えて 成果を出した  
 We see the same thing with the disability rights movement.    	  有色人種の人たちがいました 同じことが障害者権利の活動にも見られます  
 The problem is, of course,  that, as we begin to look at all that commonality,  we have to begin to question  why we maintain certain divisions.    	  もちろん 問題があります 共通性に目を向け始めながら なぜ ある一定の区分を保つのか 問い始めなくてはいけません  
 Now mind you, I want to maintain some divisions,  anatomically, in our culture.    	  解剖学的に区別が必要なものも 中にはあります  
 For example, I don't want  to give a fish the same rights as a human.    	  例えば 魚には 人間と同様の権利は与えたくありません  
 I don't want to say we give up entirely on anatomy.    	  解剖学的見地を捨て去れと言っているのではありません  
 I don't want to say five-year-olds  should be allowed to consent to sex or consent to marry.    	  ５歳の子どもが性交渉や 結婚を許可されるべきではないと思います  
 So there are some anatomical divisions  that make sense to me and that I think we should retain.    	  解剖学的な区別も 納得できるものは維持すべきでしょう  
 and why do we retain them and do they have meaning.    	  でも それを選別し その理由と意味を  
 So let's go back to those two beings  conceived at the beginning of this talk.    	  割り出すことが難しいのです 先ほどの 同時期に宿った  
 We have two beings, both conceived  in the middle of 1979 on the exact same day.    	  二人の話に戻りましょう 1979年中頃の 同じ日に宿った二人がいます  
 Let's imagine one of them, Mary,  is born three months prematurely,  so she's born on June 1, 1980.    	  その一人のメアリーは 予定日より３か月早く 1980年１月１日に生まれました  
 Henry, by contrast, is born at term,  so he's born on March 1, 1980.    	  もう一人のヘンリーは 1980年４月１日に生まれました  
 Simply by virtue of the fact  that Mary was born prematurely three months,  she comes into all sorts of rights  three months earlier than Henry does --  the right to consent to sex,  the right to vote, the right to drink.    	  予定日よりも ３か月早く生まれたため メアリーは あらゆる権利を ヘンリーよりも３か月早く手に入れます 性交渉や選挙や 飲酒できる権利です  
 Henry has to wait for all of that,  not because he's actually any different in age, biologically,  except in terms of when he was born.    	  ヘンリーは生物学的に 年齢は変わりありませんが 生まれた時期のために 待たなくてはいけません  
 We find other kinds of weirdness in terms of what their rights are.    	  他にも権利に関するおかしなことがあります  
 Henry, by virtue of being assumed to be male --  although I haven't told you that he's the XY one --  by virtue of being assumed to be male  is now liable to be drafted,  which Mary does not need to worry about.    	  男であると推測されたヘンリーは XY染色体をもっていますが 男であると推測されるために 兵役に服することになります メアリーはその心配は要りません  
 Mary, meanwhile, cannot in all the states  have the same right that Henry has in all the states,  namely, the right to marry.    	  一方で メアリーは ヘンリーが すべての州で得られる 結婚する権利が得られません  
 Henry can marry in every state a woman,  but Mary can only marry today in a few states a woman.    	  ヘンリーは どの州でも女性と結婚できますが メアリーは幾つかの州でしか 女性と結婚できません  
 So we have these anatomical categories that persist  that are in many ways problematic and questionable.    	  このように 体の構造による分類が さまざまな面で 問題を引き起こしています  
 And the question to me becomes:  What do we do,  in looking at anatomy,  that a democracy that's been based on anatomy  might start falling apart?    	  問題は 体を観察する上で 科学が発展する中 体に基づいた民主主義が 崩れ始めるかもしれないと  
 I don't want to give up the science,  but at the same time it kind of feels sometimes  like the science is coming out from under us.    	  認めざるを得ないとき どうするのか という点です 科学を手放しはしたくありませんが 科学の支えを失うような気が 時々するのです  
 So where do we go?    	  さて どうなるでしょうか  
 It seems like what happens in our culture  is a sort of pragmatic attitude:  "Well, we have to draw the line somewhere,  so we will draw the line somewhere."    	  我々の文化では 実用的な姿勢が見られます “どこかで線引きをしなくてはいけないから 線引きをしているのだ” と  
 But a lot of people get stuck in a very strange position.    	  でも おかしな状況に陥る人も多いのです  
 Texas has at one point decided  that what it means to marry a man  is to mean that you don't have a Y chromosome,  and what it means to marry a woman means you do have a Y chromosome.    	  テキサスではあるとき 男と結婚する人は Y染色体がないことを意味し 女と結婚する人は Y染色体があることを意味すると決定づけました  
 Now in practice they don't actually test people for their chromosomes.    	  実際に染色体を調べることはしませんが  
 But this is also very bizarre,  because of the story I told you at the beginning  about androgen insensitivity syndrome.    	  これも非常に変な話です なぜなら最初に紹介した話は アンドロゲン不応症についてだからです  
 If we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy,  Dr. Martin Luther King,  he offers us something of a solution in his "I have a dream" speech.    	  近代民主主義の父の一人である マーティン・ルーサー・キングが スピーチの中で解決法を示しています  
 He says we should judge people "based not on the color of their skin,  moving beyond anatomy.    	  肌の色で人を判断せずに 体という枠を超えて  
 And I want to say, "Yeah, that sounds like a really good idea."    	  人格で判断するべきだ と 良い考えだと言いたいですが  
 But in practice, how do you do it?    	  実際には どうやるのでしょうか  
 How do you judge people based on the content of character?    	  どのように 人格を基に判断できるのでしょうか  
 I also want to point out  that I'm not sure that is how we should distribute rights in terms of humans,  because, I have to admit, that there are some golden retrievers I know  that are probably more deserving of social services  than some humans I know.    	  また それが人間の権利を 与えるべき方法なのでしょうか なぜなら ある人間よりも社会福祉を受けるに値する犬を わたしは何匹か知っていると 認めざるを得ないからです  
 I also want to say there are probably also some yellow Labradors that I know  that are more capable of informed, intelligent, mature decisions  about sexual relations than some 40-year-olds that I know.    	  また わたしが知っている ある40歳の人よりも 性交渉に関して知識があり 賢くて 慎重な判断ができる犬がいるだろうと言いたいです  
 So how do we operationalize  the question of content of character?    	  さあ どうやって人格の問題を 操作できるでしょうか  
 It turns out to be really difficult.    	  これは非常に難しいのですが  
 And part of me also wonders,  what if content of character  turns out to be something that's scannable in the future --  able to be seen with an fMRI?    	  わたしは こう思う事があります もしも未来に 人格がfMRI計測できると わかったら どうでしょう？  
 Do we really want to go there?    	  そんなことを望むでしょうか？  
 I'm not sure where we go.    	  わたしにはわかりませんが  
 What I do know is that it seems to be really important  to think about the idea of the United States being in the lead  of thinking about this issue of democracy.    	  重要だと感じるのは 民主主義の問題を考えるとき アメリカが 先導するという考えです  
 We've done a really good job struggling with democracy,  and I think we would do a good job in the future.    	  アメリカは民主主義の取り組みに成果をあげ 今後も貢献できると思います  
 We don't have a situation that Iran has, for example,  where a man who's sexually attracted to other men  is liable to be murdered,  unless he's willing to submit to a sex change,  in which case he's allowed to live.    	  私たちにイランが抱える状況はありません そこでは同性愛者の男性は 殺害される危険性がありますが 性転換をするならば 命は助かります  
 We don't have that kind of situation.    	  アメリカでは そのようなことはありません  
 a surgeon I talked to a few years ago  who had brought over a set of conjoined twins  in order to separate them, partly to make a name for himself.    	  数年前に話をした外科医がいた状況が アメリカにはなくて嬉しく思います 切断手術をするために結合双生児を連れて来た外科医は  
 But when I was on the phone with him,  asking why he was going to do this surgery --  this was a very high-risk surgery --  his answer was that, in this other nation,  these children were going to be treated very badly, and so he had to do this.    	  自分を売り込むことが目的でもありました その医師と電話で話したときに リスクの高い手術だったので なぜ 手術をするのか尋ねました その国では その子どもが辛い目にあうので  
 My response to him was, "Well, have you considered political asylum  instead of a separation surgery?"    	  手術をしなくてはいけない ということだったため 切断手術の代わりに 政治亡命を  
 The United States has offered tremendous possibility  for allowing people to be the way they are,  without having them have to be changed for the sake of the state.    	  検討したことはあるかと尋ねました 人々がありのままでいられるように アメリカは多大な可能性を 提供してきました  
 So I think we have to be in the lead.    	  我々が先頭に立たなくてはいけません  
 Well, just to close, I want to suggest to you  that I've been talking a lot about the fathers.    	  最後に 提案をしたいと思います 建国の父たちの話題ばかりでしたが  
 And I want to think about the possibilities  of what democracy might look like, or might have looked like,  if we had more involved the mothers.    	  母たちがもっと関与していた場合 民主主義はどのようなものだったのか 可能性を考えたいのです  
 And I want to say something a little bit radical for a feminist,  and that is that I think that there may be  different kinds of insights  that can come from different kinds of anatomies,  particularly when we have people thinking in groups.    	  フェミニストの立場から 少し急進的なことを言うと 異なる体から生まれる 異なる洞察が あるかもしれません 特にグループで考える場合です  
 Now for years, because I've been interested in intersex,  I've also been interested in sex difference research.    	  半陰陽に興味をもって何年も経ちますが 性別の違いの研究にも興味があります  
 And one of the things that I've been really interested in  in terms of the way they think and operate in the world.    	  興味あるものの一つに 考え方や影響の及ぼし方における  
 And what we know from cross-cultural studies  is that females, on average --  not everyone, but on average --  are more inclined to be very attentive  to complex social relations  and to taking care of people  who are basically vulnerable within the group.    	  男女の違いがあります 異文化研究からわかっているのは 女性は皆ではありませんが 平均的に 複雑な社会関係に 注意を払い その中でも弱い立場の人たちの 面倒をみる傾向があります  
 And so if we think about that,  we have an interesting situation on our hands.    	  その点を考慮すると 手中に興味深い状況があるのです  
 Years ago, when I was in graduate school,  one of my graduate advisers who knew I was interested in feminism --  I considered myself a feminist, as I still do --  asked a really strange question.    	  何年も前 大学院にいた頃 フェミニズムに関心をよせる私に ある先生が 変な質問をしてきました “フェミニズムのどこが  
 He said, "Tell me what's feminine about feminism."    	  女性的なのか 教えてくれないか”  
 And I thought, "Well that's the dumbest question I've ever heard.    	  馬鹿げた質問だと思いました  
 Feminism is all about undoing stereotypes about gender,  so there's nothing feminine about feminism."    	  フェミニズムとは性別に関する固定観念を打ち消していくことであり 女性的なものなど 一切ありません  
 But the more I thought about his question,  the more I thought there might be something feminine about feminism.    	  でも より考えていくうちに 女性的なものがあるかもしれないと 思いました  
 That is to say, there might be something, on average, different about female brains from male brains  that makes us more attentive  to deeply complex social relationships  and more attentive to taking care of the vulnerable.    	  平均して女性の脳が男性の脳と違う点が あるかもしれません 複雑な社会関係や 弱い立場にいる人たちに  
 So whereas the fathers were extremely attentive  to figuring out how to protect individuals from the state,  it's possible that if we injected more mothers  into this concept,  what we would have is more of a concept  of, not just how to protect,  but how to care for each other.    	  より多くの気を使う何かです 建国の父たちが国から人々を守る方法を 模索するのに気を使ったことを見ると この概念に より多くの女性を送り込めば 人々を守る方法だけではなく お互いに世話をすることが  
 And maybe that's where we need to go in the future,  when we take democracy beyond anatomy,  is to think less about the individual body,  in terms of the identity,  and think more about those relationships.    	  可能になるでしょう それが将来に必要なものかもしれません 体を超えた民主主義を考えるというのは アイデンティティの点では 個人の体は それほど重視せずに 関係性を重視するということです  
 So that as we the people try to create a more perfect union,  we're thinking about what we do for each other.    	  より完璧な国をつくろうとしながら お互いのためを考えるのです  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとう  
 In 2007,  I decided that we needed to reconceptualize  how we thought about economic development.    	  2007年 私は 経済成長について改めて概念化し直す 必要があると思い立ちました  
 Our new goal should be  that when every family thinks about where they want to live and work,  they should be able to choose between  at least a handful  of different cities that were all competing to attract new residents.    	  私たちの新たな目的は 人々がどこに住んでどこで働きたいかを考えたとき 選択肢として最低でも 片手一杯の数の 住民獲得競争をしている都市が  
 Now we're a long way away from that goal right now.    	  あるようにするべきというものです  
 There are billions of people in developing countries  who don't have even a single city that would be willing to welcome them.    	  まだそれにはほど遠い状況にあります 受け入れてくれる都市が一つもない人が 発展途上国に何十億人といます  
 But the amazing thing about cities  is they're worth so much more  than it costs to build them.    	  しかし都市の凄いところは 開発費用より断然高い価値を 持っていることです  
 So we could easily supply the world  with dozens, maybe hundreds,  of new cities.    	  従って私たちは世界に対して ダースあるいは百単位の都市を 簡単に提供できるのです  
 Now this might sound preposterous to you  if you've never thought about new cities.    	  景気の良い話に聞こえるかもしれませんが 新しい都市というものを考えると分かります  
 But just substitute apartment building for cities.    	  都市をマンションに置き換えて考えてみてください  
 Imagine half the people who wanted to be in apartments already had them;  the other half aren't there yet.    	  マンション入居希望者の半分は既に入居しており 残り半分はしていないと考えてください  
 You could try and expand the capacity  by doing additions on all the existing apartments.    	  既存のマンションを増築することで 部屋の数を増やすことも出来るでしょう  
 But you know what you'd run into  is those apartments and the surrounding areas  have rules to avoid discomfort  and the distractions of construction.    	  しかし次のような問題に突き当たります マンションや周辺地域には 不快さや増築による騒音を 禁止するルールがあるということです  
 So it's extremely hard to do all of those additions.    	  従って増築は極めて困難です  
 But you could go out someplace brand new,  build a brand new apartment building,  as long as the rules there  were ones that facilitated construction  rather than getting in the way.    	  しかし建築の禁止でなく 促進するようなルールを持つ 場所であれば その全く新しい土地で 新しいマンションを建てることはできます  
 So I proposed  that governments create new reform zones  big enough to hold cities  and gave them a name: charter cities.    	  従って私の提案は 政府が都市を造れるほど 広い再開発地区を設けるというものです それにチャーター都市と名付けました  
 Later I learned that at about this same time,  Javier and Octavio  were thinking about the challenge of reform  in Honduras.    	  後に私は 時同じくして ハビエルとオクタビオらが ホンジュラスで再開発の試みについて 考えていたことを知りました  
 They knew that about 75,000 Hondurans every year  would leave to go to the United States,  and they wanted to ask, what could they do  to make sure that those people could stay  and do the same things in Honduras.    	  彼らは毎年約 7 万 5 千人のホンジュラスの人が アメリカへと出て行っていることを知っており この人たちがホンジュラス内で 同様のことを出来るようにする為には 何が出来るのかと頭をひねっていました  
 At one point, Javier said to Octavio,  "What if we took some of our empty land --  what if we just gave it to an embassy --  give some to the U.S. embassy; give some to the Canadian embassy --  and then if people want to go work  under the rules of Canada or under the rules of the United States,  they can go get jobs,  do everything they do on those embassy grounds    	  ある日ハビエルはオクタビオにこう言いました 「例えば私たちの空いている土地を 大使館に移譲したらどうか アメリカやカナダの大使館に移譲し 人々があちらのルールで 働きたい場合に 移住しなくてはできないことを全て 大使館の管理の下で  
 that they would otherwise have to go to Canada or the U.S. to do?"    	  できるようにしたらどうか？」  
 In the summer of 2009,  Honduras went through a wrenching constitutional crisis.    	  2009 年の夏に ホンジュラスは政治上の苦しい危機に見舞われました  
 At the next regularly scheduled election,  Pepe Lobo won in a landslide  on a platform that promised reform,  but reconciliation as well.    	  次の定期選挙で ペペ・ロボが再開発に加え 調停も確約した上で 圧倒的勝利を収めたのです  
 He asked Octavio to be his chief of staff.    	  彼はオクタビオに参謀長になるよう求めました  
 Meanwhile, I was getting ready  to give a talk at TEDGlobal.    	  一方私は TEDGlobal で講演する 準備をしていました  
 Through a process of refinement,  trial and error, a lot of user testing,  I tried to boil this complicated concept of charter city  down to the bare essentials.    	  手直しやトライアルアンドエラー ユーザーテストといった過程を経て チャーター都市という難しいアイデアを 根本的な要素へと要約しようとしていました  
 The first point was the importance of rules,  like those rules that say  you can't come in and disturb all the existing apartment holders.    	  一つ目の要点はルールの重要性です 例えば既に住んでいる住民に 迷惑をかけないといったルールです  
 We pay a lot of attention to new technologies,  but it takes technologies and rules to get progress,  and it's usually the rules that hold us back.    	  私たちはよく新技術に注目しますが 進歩のためには 技術に加えルールも必要なのです そして しばしば私たちの妨げとなるのもルールです  
 In the fall of 2010, a friend from Guatemala  sent Octavio a link to the TEDTalk.    	  2010 年の秋にグアテマラからの友人が TEDTalk のリンクをオクタビオに送りました  
 He showed it to Javier.    	  それを彼はハビエルに見せ  
 They called me.    	  二人は私に連絡をくれました  
 They said, "Let's present this to the leaders of our country."    	  彼らは「これを私たちの国のリーダーに見せよう」と言いました  
 So in December we met in Miami,  in a hotel conference room.    	  そして私たちは12月に マイアミのホテルの会議室で会いました  
 I tried to explain this point  about how valuable cities are,  how much more valuable they are than they cost.    	  私は 都市にどれだけ価値があるのか そして建築費用に比べて どれだけ価値が高いかを説明しました  
 And I used this slide  showing how valuable the raw land is  in a place like New York City:  notice, land that's worth thousands of dollars, in some cases,  per square meter.    	  私はこのスライドで ニューヨークなどの更地が どれだけ高価か示しました 見てください 一部の土地は一平米 1,000 ドルも することがあります  
 But it was a fairly abstract discussion,  and at some point when there was a pause,  Octavio said,  "Paul, maybe we could watch the TEDTalk."    	  その時の議論は比較的抽象的で ふと間が空いたタイミングで オクタビオが言いました 「ポール TEDTalk を見ればいいじゃないか」  
   So the TEDTalk laid out in very simple terms,  a charter city is a place  where you start with uninhabited land,  a charter that specifies the rules that will apply there  and then a chance for people to opt in,  to go live under those rules or not.    	   TEDTalk はチャーター都市というものを とても易しい言葉で打ち出していました それは無人の土地から始まるものであり 定款でそこに適用されるルールを定め そのルールの下で生活していくかの 選択肢を人々に提供することです  
 So I was asked by the president of Honduras who said that we need to do this project,  this could be the way forward for our country.    	  このプロジェクトを推進していく必要がある この国が成長するための道となるだろうと ホンジュラス首相は述べ  
 I was asked to come to Tegucigalpa  and talk again on January fourth and fifth.    	  私に協力を依頼されました 私はテグシガルパに招かれ 一月の四日と五日に講演しました  
 So I presented  another fact-filled lecture  that included a slide like this,  which tried to make the point that, if you want to create a lot of value in a city,  it has to be very big.    	  そこで私は 次のスライドのような データを示し 講義をしました 要点は 価値ある都市を造るには 相応の広さが必要だということです  
 This is a picture of Denver,  and the outline is the new airport that was built in Denver.    	  こちらはデンバーの写真で 枠線はデンバーに建てられた新しい空港です  
 This airport alone  covers more than 100 square kilometers.    	  この空港単独で 100 平方キロメートルを占めます  
 if you build a new city,  you've got to start with a site that's at least 1,000 square kilometers.    	  新しい都市を造るなら最低でも 1,000km 平方の土地で始める必要があると 伝えたかったのです  
 That's more than 250 hundred-thousand acres.    	  250 エーカー以上です  
 Everybody applauded politely.    	  皆 丁寧に賞賛してくれました  
 The faces in the audience  were very serious and attentive.    	  聴衆の顔はどれも 真面目で集中していました  
 The leader of the congress came up on stage and said,  "Professor Romer, thank you very much for your lecture,  but maybe we could watch the TEDTalk.    	  議長が壇上に上がり こう言いました 「ローマー博士 ご講演ありがとうございます ただ TEDTalk も見てみませんか  
 I've got it here on my laptop."    	  ノートパソコンを持ってきました」  
 So I sat down, and they played the TEDTalk.    	  私は座り 彼らは TEDTalk を再生してくれました  
 And it got to the essence,  which is that a new city could offer new choices for people.    	  それは的を射ていました つまり 新しい都市は新たな選択肢を人々に提供できるということです  
 There would be a choice of a city which you could go to  instead of hundreds of miles away in the North.    	  どの都市へ行くか 皆に選択肢ができます それは数百キロも北に離れた土地でなく ホンジュラスでも良いわけです  
 And it also involved new choices for leaders.    	  リーダーにも新しい選択肢を提示します  
 Because the leaders in the government there in Honduras  would need help from partner countries,  who could benefit from partner countries  who help them set up the rules in this charter and the enforcement, so everybody can trust  that the charter really will be enforced.    	  なぜなら ホンジュラス政府の指導者たちは 提携国からの援助が必要かもしれませんし 提携国から利益を得られるかもしれません 定款が本当に施行されると皆が信頼できるように ルール策定や施行を援助してくれる人が  
 And the insight of President Lobo  was that that assurance of enforcement  that I was thinking about  as a way to get the foreign investors to come in and build the city  could be equally important for all the different parties in Honduras  who had suffered for so many years  from fear and distrust.    	  必要かもしれません 海外の投資家を迎え入れ 都市を造るために必要だと 私が考えていた施行の確約は 恐怖や不信感に長年悩まされてきた ホンジュラスのどの政党にとっても 等しく重要なものであると ロボ首相は考えていました  
 We went and looked at a site.    	  私たちは現地視察しました  
 This picture's from there.    	  こちらはその時の写真です  
 It easily could hold a thousand square kilometers.    	  一千平方キロメートルを優に超える広さを誇ります  
 And shortly thereafter, on January 19th,  they voted in the congress to amend their constitution  to have a constitutional provision  that allows for special development regions.    	  その直度の一月十九日に 特別開発区域を認める 条項を定める憲法の改正を 議会で投票しました  
 In a country which had just gone through this wrenching crisis,  the vote in the congress in favor of this constitutional amendment  was 124 to one.    	  苦しい危機を経験したばかりのこの国で この憲法改正に関する投票結果は 124 対 1 でした  
 All parties, all factions in society, backed this.    	  全ての政党 全ての派閥がこれを支持したのです  
 To be part of the constitution, you actually have to pass it twice in the congress.    	  憲法の一部として定めるには議会で二度通す必要があります  
 On February 17th they passed it again  with another vote of 114 to one.    	  そして二月十七日の投票でも 114 対 1 で可決されました  
 Immediately after that vote,  on February 21st to the 24th,  a delegation of about 30 Hondurans  that are most interested in getting into the city building business.    	  この直後の 二月二十一日から二十四日にかけて ホンジュラスの代表 30 名が 都市建築ビジネスに最も興味を示した 二つの国へ渡航していきました  
 One is South Korea.    	  一つは韓国です  
 This is a picture of a big, new city center  that's being built in South Korea --  bigger than downtown Boston.    	  こちらの写真は韓国で新しく作られている 都市の新たな中心です ボストンのダウンタウンより大きいです  
 Everything you see there was built in four years,  after they spent four years getting the permits.    	  写真に写っている物は全て四年以内に建てられたものです 許可を得るのに四年間かかっています  
 The other place that's very interested in city building is Singapore.    	  もう一つの国はシンガポールでした  
 They've actually built two cities already in China  and are preparing the third.    	  シンガポールは既に中国で二つの都市を造っており 三つ目に着手しようというところです  
 So if you think about this practically,  here's where we are.    	  私たちの現状をまとめると このようになっています  
 They've got a site; they're already thinking about this site for the second city.    	  場所は確保しました 二つ目の場所についても検討中です  
 They're putting in place a legal system  that could allow for managers to come in,  and also an external legal system.    	  投資顧問を招くことの出来るよう 法律制度を用意しているところです 外部の法律制度もです  
 One country has already volunteered to let its supreme court  be the court of final appeal for the new judicial system there.    	  ここの新たな司法制度の最高裁判所として 一つの国が名乗り挙げています  
 There's designers and builders of cities  who are very interested.    	  非常に興味を持ってくれている 設計者や建築者もいます  
 They even can bring with them some financing.    	  また彼らは資金調達もしてくれます  
 But the one thing you know they've already solved  is that there's lots of tenants.    	  一つ解決している問題は テナントが大量にあるということです  
 There's lots of businesses that would like to locate in the Americas, especially in a place with a free trade zone,  and there's lots of people who'd like to go there.    	  アメリカに 特に自由貿易が可能な場所に 拠点を望む会社が沢山あります  
 Around the world, there's 700 million people  who say they'd like to move permanently someplace else right now.    	  同様に望む人も大勢います 直ちに他の場所へ移って永住したいという人は  
 There's a million a year  who leave Latin America to go to the United States.    	  世界に 7 億人います ラテンアメリカから アメリカ合衆国への移住は年間百万人います  
 Many of these are a father  who has to leave his family behind to go get a job --  who has to get enough money to even pay for food or clothing.    	  その多くは家族を残して 出稼ぎに行く必要がある父親で 一部は衣食のためにお金が必要な  
 Sadly, sometimes there are even children  who are trying to get reunited with their parents  that they haven't seen, in some cases, for a decade.    	  シングルマザーです その中には悲しいことに子供もおり 場合によっては十年以上離ればなれの両親と  
 So what kind of an idea is it  to think about building a brand new city in Honduras?    	  再会するために移住してきます ではホンジュラスに全く新しい都市を造るということは  
 Or to build a dozen of these,  or a hundred of these, around the world?    	  どういったアイデアなのでしょうか？ 世界中に同様の都市を 数十 数百と造っていくことは何に繋がるでしょう？  
 What kind of an idea is it  to think about insisting  that every family have a choice of several cities  that are competing to attract new residents?    	  全ての家族に 住民獲得競争をしている 複数の都市を選択肢として提供するとは どういったアイデアなのでしょうか？  
 This is an idea worth spreading.    	  それは 世の中に広めるに足るアイデアです  
 And my friends from Honduras  asked me to say thank you, TED.    	  ホンジュラスの友人から伝言があります ありがとうございます TED  
 I'm Jessi, and this is my suitcase.    	  私はジェシー　これは私のスーツケースです  
 But before I show you what I've got inside,  I'm going to make a very public confession,  and that is,  I'm outfit-obsessed.    	  中に入っている物をお見せする前に 皆さんの前で ある告白をします 私は 洋服に夢中です  
 I love finding, wearing,  and more recently,  photographing and blogging  a different, colorful, crazy outfit  for every single occasion.    	  洋服を探すのも 着るのも大好き 最近は 写真を撮って ブログを書いていて 様々なシーンで使える カラフルでクレイジーな装いを紹介しています  
 But I don't buy anything new.    	  でも 新品の服は買いません  
 I get all my clothes secondhand  from flea markets and thrift stores.    	  私の服はどれも フリマや古着屋で買ったものです  
 Aww, thank you.    	  ありがとう！  
 Secondhand shopping allows me to reduce the impact  my wardrobe has on the environment  and on my wallet.    	  古着の服を買うことで 環境にも お財布にもやさしい 洋服選びができます  
 I get to meet all kinds of great people;  my dollars usually go to a good cause;  I look pretty unique;  and it makes shopping like my own personal treasure hunt.    	  素敵な人たちとの出会いもあるし 私のお金も 立派な目的に使われる事になります 見た目もユニーク 買い物が 宝探しのようにも感じられます  
 I mean, what am I going to find today?    	  今日の戦利品は何？  
 Is it going to be my size?    	  サイズは合う？  
 Will I like the color?    	  色は気に入る？  
 Will it be under $20?    	  20ドル以下で収まる？  
 If all the answers are yes,  I feel as though I've won.    	  どの答えもイエスなら 勝ったような気分です  
 I want to get back to my suitcase  and tell you what I packed  for this exciting week here at TED.    	  スーツケースに話題を戻し TEDで着る為に 持参したものを紹介します  
 I mean, what does somebody with all these outfits bring with her?    	  こんな服装をしている人間が持ってくるものに 興味はありませんか？  
 So I'm going to show you exactly what I brought.    	  何を持ってきたのかお見せすると  
 I brought seven pairs of underpants  and that's it.    	  ７枚の下着 これだけです  
 Exactly one week's worth of undies  is all I put in my suitcase.    	  １週間分の下着を スーツケースに入れてきました  
 I was betting that I'd be able to find  everything else I could possible want to wear  once I got here to Palm Springs.    	  パームスプリングスに着いたら 自分が着たいと思うものはすべて 見つかるだろうと思ったからです  
 And since you don't know me  as the woman walking around TED in her underwear --    that means I found a few things.    	  TED会場を 下着だけで 歩き回っているわけではないので （会場： 笑い声） 買い物ができたと おわかりでしょう  
 And I'd really love to show you my week's worth of outfits right now.    	  １週間分の装いを紹介したいのですが  
 Does that sound good?    	  どうかしら？  
   So as I do this,  I'm also going to tell you a few of the life lessons  in these adventures wearing nothing new.    	  （拍手） 洋服の紹介をしながら 人生の教訓も 述べたいと思います 古着を着る冒険をしながら 教訓を身につけていきました  
 So let's start with Sunday.    	  日曜日から始めましょう  
 I call this "Shiny Tiger."    	  名付けて 輝くトラ  
 You do not have to spend a lot of money to look great.    	  着飾るために たくさんのお金をかける必要はなく  
 You can almost always look phenomenal for under $50.    	  50ドル以下でも 素敵な着こなしができます  
 This whole outfit, including the jacket,  cost me $55,  and it was the most expensive thing  that I wore the entire week.    	  ジャケットを入れても 全部で55ドルでした これが今週のスタイルで 最も高かったものです  
 Monday: Color is powerful.    	  月曜日　カラーはパワフル  
 to be in a bad mood when you're wearing bright red pants.    	  赤いパンツを履けば 不機嫌になるのも 生理的には ほぼ不可能  
   If you are happy,  you are going to attract other happy people to you.    	  （会場： 笑い声） 自分が幸せそうにしていれば 幸せな人たちが寄ってきます  
 Tuesday:  Fitting in is way overrated.    	  火曜日 協調性は 過大視されすぎています  
 I've spent a whole lot of my life  trying to be myself  and at the same time fit in.    	  私は 自分であろうとしながら 協調性を求めようと ずいぶんな時間を費やしました  
 Just be who you are.    	  ただ自分らしくありましょう  
 If you are surrounding yourself with the right people,  they will not only get it,  they will appreciate it.    	  身辺を適切な人で固めれば 個性を認めてくれるだけではなく 高く評価してくれます  
 Wednesday:  Embrace your inner child.    	  水曜日 子どもっぽさを忘れずに  
 Sometimes people tell me  that I look like I'm playing dress-up,  or that I remind them of their seven-year-old.    	  時々 ドレスアップをして 遊んでいるようだと言われたり ７歳の自分を思い出すと言われます  
 I like to smile  and say, "Thank you."    	  にっこり笑って お礼を言います  
 Thursday:  Confidence is key.    	  木曜日 自信が秘訣  
 If you think you look good in something,  you almost certainly do.    	  ある服が似合うと思ったら だいたいの場合は 似合っていて  
 And if you don't think you look good in something,  you're also probably right.    	  ある服が似合わないと思ったら おそらく似合っていないのです  
 I grew up with a mom who taught me this day-in and day-out.    	  常にこう教えてくれた母の下で育ちました  
 But it wasn't until I turned 30  that I really got what this meant.    	  でも 30歳になるまで この意味がわかりませんでした  
 And I'm going to break it down for you for just a second.    	  噛み砕いて 説明してみます 内面も外面も  
 If you believe you're a beautiful person  there is no look that you can't pull off.    	  自分が美しい人間だと思うなら 着こなせないスタイルなどありません  
 So there is no excuse for any of us here in this audience.    	  これは皆さんに言えることです  
 We should be able to rock anything we want to rock.    	  カッコよく見せたい服装は カッコよく見せられるはずです  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとう  
   Friday: A universal truth -- five words for you:  Gold sequins go with everything.    	  （拍手） 金曜日　万物の真実 ― あなたへのメッセージ 金のスパンコールは 何にもピッタリ  
 And finally, Saturday:  Developing your own unique personal style  without having to say a word.    	  最後に土曜日 独自のスタイルの構築は 言葉を使わずに 自らを表現する  
 It's been proven to me time and time again  as people have walked up to me this week  simply because of what I'm wearing,  and we've had great conversations.    	  すばらしい方法 こうしたわけで 私の装いが理由で 今週は いろんな方に話しかけられ  
 So obviously this is not all going to fit  back in my tiny suitcase.    	  充実した会話ができました あの小さなスーツケースに  
 So before I go home to Brooklyn,  I'm going to donate everything back.    	  全部入れられないので ブルックリンに帰る前に 服はすべて 寄付するつもりです  
 Because the lesson I'm trying to learn myself this week  is that it's okay to let go.    	  なぜなら 今週学ぼうとしている教訓は 手放しても構わない ということだからです  
 I don't need to get emotionally attached to these things  because around the corner,  there is always going to be  another crazy, colorful,  shiny outfit  just waiting for me,  if I put a little love in my heart and look.    	  愛着をもつ必要はありません いつだって 身のまわりには クレイジーで カラフルな キラリと輝く服が 私を待ってるんですもの ハートとスタイルに いつも愛を  
 Thank you very much.    	  どうもありがとう  
   Thank you.    	  （拍手） ありがとう  
 This is a representation of your brain,  and your brain can be broken into two parts.    	  これは脳を表しています 脳は二つの部分に分けられます  
 There's the left half, which is the logical side,  and then the right half,  which is the intuitive.    	  左半分は論理を司り 右半分は 直感を担当します  
 And so if we had a scale to measure the aptitude of each hemisphere,  then we can plot our brain.    	  左右の脳半球の能力を示す基準があれば 脳を図に表すことが可能です  
 And for example, this would be somebody who's completely logical.    	  例えばこの場合 完全に論理的な人を表します  
 This would be someone who's entirely intuitive.    	  この場合は完全に直感的な人でしょう  
 So where would you put your brain on this scale?    	  皆さんの脳はどの位置でしょうか  
 Some of us may have opted for one of these extremes,  but I think for most people in the audience,  your brain is something like this --  with a high aptitude in both hemispheres at the same time.    	  極端なパターンの人もいるかもしれませんが 皆さんの脳は大抵 こんな風に 同時に両半球で高い能力を持っていると思います  
 It's not like they're mutually exclusive or anything.    	  双方相容れない訳でなく  
 You can be logical and intuitive.    	  論理的且つ直感的になれるのです  
 And so I consider myself one of these people,  along with most of the other experimental quantum physicists,  who need a good deal of logic  to string together these complex ideas.    	  私もこの分類に入ると思っています 他の実験量子物理学者の多くもそうです 量子物理の複雑な考えをまとめる 論理性が必要である一方  
 But at the same time, we need a good deal of intuition  to actually make the experiments work.    	  実験を成功させるための かなりの直感が必要なのです  
 How do we develop this intuition? Well we like to play with stuff.    	  どう直感を培えばよいでしょうか？ まずは試してみるのです  
 So we go out and play with it, and then we see how it acts,  and then we develop our intuition from there.    	  試しにいろいろやってみて その結果を見てみます そこから直感を培っていくのです  
 And really you do the same thing.    	  皆さんも同じ事をしています  
 So some intuition  that you may have developed over the years  is that one thing is only in one place at a time.    	  何年もかけて 皆さんが培ってきた直感の一つは 一つの物は 同時に二つの場所に存在しないということです  
 I mean, it can sound weird to think about  one thing being in two different places at the same time,  but you weren't born with this notion, you developed it.    	  一つの物が 同時に二つの異なる場所に 存在するというのは 奇妙に感じるでしょう これは生まれもった概念ではなく 培ってきたものです  
 And I remember watching a kid playing on a car stop.    	  子供が車止めの上で遊んでいるのを見たことを思い出します  
 He was just a toddler and he wasn't very good at it, and he kept falling over.    	  よちよち歩きの幼児で よく落ちていました  
 But I bet playing with this car stop taught him a really valuable lesson,  and that's that large things don't let you get right past them,  and that they stay in one place.    	  でも車止めで遊んで あの子は貴重なことを学んだと思います それは 大きい物体は自分を通り抜けることはせず 一つの場所にとどまるということです  
 And so this is a great conceptual model to have of the world,  unless you're a particle physicist.    	  これは世界の概念として優れたモデルです でも素粒子物理学者の観点では  
 It'd be a terrible model for a particle physicist,  because they don't play with car stops,  they play with these little weird particles.    	  ひどいモデルです 彼らの対象は車止めでなく 素粒子という奇妙なものだからです  
 And when they play with their particles,  they find they do all sorts of really weird things --  like they can fly right through walls,  or they can be in two different places at the same time.    	  素粒子を扱ってみると それが 本当に奇妙なことをすることを知りました 壁を通り抜けたり 二つの異なる場所に同時に存在するのです  
 And so they wrote down all these observations,  and they called it the theory of quantum mechanics.    	  このような観測内容はまとめられ 量子力学理論と名付けられました  
 And so that's where physics was at a few years ago;  to describe little, tiny particles.    	  それが数年前の頃の物理学でした 極めて小さな素粒子の説明には  
 But you didn't need it  to describe the large, everyday objects around us.    	  量子力学が必要です でも私たちの周囲にある 普通の大きさの物体の説明には必要ありません  
 This didn't really sit well with my intuition,  and maybe it's just because I don't play with particles very often.    	  これは私の直感に しっくりきませんでしたが 普段から 素粒子を扱わないからかもしれません  
 Well, I play with them sometimes,  but not very often.    	  たまに扱うこともありますが めったにありません  
 And I've never seen them.    	  それに見たこともありません  
 I mean, nobody's ever seen a particle.    	  そもそも素粒子を見た人は誰もいません  
 But it didn't sit well with my logical side either.    	  さらに 論理的にもしっくりきませんでした  
 Because if everything is made up of little particles  and all the little particles  follow quantum mechanics,  then shouldn't everything just follow quantum mechanics?    	  もし全ての物体が素粒子で構成され 素粒子は 量子力学に従うのであれば 全ての物体も量子力学に従うのではないでしょうか？  
 I don't see any reason why it shouldn't.    	  そうならない理由を見出すことができません  
 if we could somehow show  that an everyday object  also follows quantum mechanics.    	  もし 通常の物体も 量子力学に従うことを 何とか証明できれば全てが  
 So a few years ago, I set off to do just that.    	  納得できると考えました そして数年前 その取り組みに着手しました  
 So I made one.    	  そして一つ作ってみたのです  
 This is the first object  that has been in a mechanical quantum superposition.    	  これが機械的に 量子重ね合わせ状態になった  
 So what we're looking at here  is a tiny computer chip.    	  肉眼で見える初めての物体です 今見ているのは 小さなコンピュータチップです  
 And you can sort of see this green dot right in the middle.    	  真ん中に緑の点が見えます  
 And that's this piece of metal I'm going to be talking about in a minute.    	  これはこの後説明する金属片です  
 This is a photograph of the object.    	  これが物体の写真になります  
 And here I'll zoom in a little bit. We're looking right there in the center.    	  ここを少し拡大してみます　あの中心を見ています  
 And then here's a really, really big close-up of the little piece of metal.    	  これが小さな金属片を拡大した時のものです  
 So what we're looking at is a little chunk of metal,  and it's shaped like a diving board, and it's sticking out over a ledge.    	  今見ているのは小さな金属の塊で ダイビング・ボードのような出っ張った形をしています  
 And so I made this thing  in nearly the same way as you make a computer chip.    	  コンピュータチップを作るのと 同じ方法でこれを作りました  
 I went into a clean room with a fresh silicon wafer,  and then I just cranked away at all the big machines for about 100 hours.    	  新しいシリコンウェハーと共に クリーンルームの中で 100時間程 様々な巨大な機械を使い製作します  
 For the last stuff, I had to build my own machine --  to make this swimming pool-shaped hole  underneath the device.    	  最後の工程では 装置の下の 水泳プールの形をした穴を作るために 機械を自作する必要がありました  
 This device has the ability  to be in a quantum superposition,  but it needs a little help to do it.    	  この装置は 量子重ね合わせ状態になる機能がありますが 少し手助けが必要です  
 Here, let me give you an analogy.    	  ここである例えを紹介します  
 You know how uncomfortable it is to be in a crowded elevator?    	  混んでいるエレベーターの中の不快さを想像してみてください  
 I mean, when I'm in an elevator all alone, I do all sorts of weird things,  but then other people get on board  and I stop doing those things  because I don't want to bother them,  or, frankly, scare them.    	  エレベーターに私一人なら 変なことをしたりするのですが 他の乗客が入ってくると そういうことはやめます 他の人の迷惑になりたくないですし 怖がらせたくありません  
 So quantum mechanics says  that inanimate objects feel the same way.    	  量子力学的には 無生物もそう思うようです  
 The fellow passengers for inanimate objects  are not just people,  but it's also the light shining on it  and the wind blowing past it and the heat of the room.    	  乗客としての無生物は 人だけでなく 差し込む光だったり 吹き抜ける風や室内の熱だったりします  
 And so we knew, if we wanted to see  this piece of metal behave quantum mechanically,  we're going to have to kick out all the other passengers.    	  ですから この金属片が 量子力学的に振る舞うのを見るには 乗客を全て 降ろす必要があると分かっていたので  
 And so that's what we did.    	  そうしました  
 We turned off the lights,  and then we put it in a vacuum and sucked out all the air,  to just a fraction of a degree above absolute zero.    	  明かりを消して 吸引機で全ての空気を除去し 絶対零度付近の温度まで 冷やしました  
 Now, all alone in the elevator,  the little chunk of metal is free to act however it wanted.    	  エレベーターに残されたこの小さな金属片は これで自由に振る舞う事が可能です  
 And so we measured its motion.    	  そこでその挙動を測定してみると  
 We found it was moving in really weird ways.    	  非常に奇妙な動きをしていました  
 Instead of just sitting perfectly still, it was vibrating,  and the way it was vibrating was breathing something like this --  like expanding and contracting bellows.    	  完全に静止する代わりに 振動していたのです 振動はまるで呼吸のように 肺が拡大 縮小をしているようでした そして軽く押してみると  
 And by giving it a gentle nudge,  we were able to make it both vibrate  and not vibrate  something that's only allowed with quantum mechanics.    	  金属片に振動と無振動を 同時に行わせることが 出来たのです それは量子力学においてのみあり得る動きです  
 So what I'm telling you here is something truly fantastic.    	  ここでお話していることは本当に素晴らしいことです  
 What does it mean for one thing  to be both vibrating and not vibrating  at the same time?    	  一つの物体が 振動と無振動を同時に行うとは どういった事でしょうか？  
 So let's think about the atoms.    	  原子について考えてみましょう  
 So in one case:  all the trillions of atoms that make up that chunk of metal  are sitting still  and at the same time those same atoms  are moving up and down.    	  例を出します あの金属片を構成する無数の原子は 静止していますが 同時に 上下にも動いています  
 Now it's only at precise times when they align.    	  一列に並ぶのは一瞬だけで  
 The rest of the time they're delocalized.    	  それ以外の時は離れています  
 That means that every atom  is in two different places at the same time,  which in turn means the entire chunk of metal  is in two different places.    	  これが意味するのは 全ての原子が 同時に二つの異なる場所に存在し すなわち 金属の塊は丸ごと二つの異なる場所に 存在しているということです  
 I think this is really cool.    	  これは本当にスゴいことだと思います  
   Really.    	   本当ですよ  
   It was worth locking myself in a clean room to do this for all those years  because, check this out,  the difference in scale  between a single atom and that chunk of metal  is about the same as the difference  between that chunk of metal and you.    	  （拍手） 何年もクリーンルームに閉じこもっていた甲斐がありました と言うのも 聞いてください 一つの原子と あの金属の塊との間の縮尺の違いは あの金属の塊と皆さんとの 縮尺の違いと大体同じです  
 So if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time,  that chunk of metal can be in two different places,  then why not you?    	  つまり一つの原子が同時に二つの異なる場所に存在できるなら 金属片も二つの異なる場所に存在できます なら 皆さんにも可能では？  
 I mean, this is just my logical side talking.    	  これは私の論理的な視点の意見です  
 So imagine if you're in multiple places at the same time,  what would that be like?    	  自分が複数の場所に存在していたら どうなるか想像してみてください  
 How would your consciousness  handle your body being delocalized in space?    	  意識はどのようにして 空間の一ヶ所に存在しない体に対応するのでしょうか？  
 There's one more part to the story.    	  話にはもう一つ続きがあります  
 It's when we warmed it up,  and we turned on the lights and looked inside the box,  we saw that the piece metal was still there in one piece.    	  物体を暖め 明かりをつけ 箱の中を見たところ 金属片はまだそこに存在していました  
 And so I had to develop this new intuition,  that it seems like all the objects in the elevator  are really just quantum objects  just crammed into a tiny space.    	  そこで 新しい直感を形成する必要がありました エレベーターの中の全ての物体は 実は紛れもない量子物体で 狭い空間にいるだけのようでした  
 You hear a lot of talk  about how quantum mechanics says that everything is all interconnected.    	  量子力学上では 全ては相互に関連し合っていることをよく聞きます  
 Well, that's not quite right.    	  しかし 全く正しいとは言えません  
 It's more than that; it's deeper.    	  それだけの話ではなく もっと深いのです  
 It's that those connections,  your connections to all the things around you,  literally define who you are,  and that's the profound weirdness of quantum mechanics.    	  周囲に存在する全ての物体と 皆さんとの関連性が 文字通り皆さんを定義するのです それが量子力学のとても不思議な所なのです  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 My name is Amit.    	  私はアミットと言います  
 And 18 months ago, I had another job at Google,  and I pitched this idea  of doing something with museums and art  to my boss who's actually here,  and she allowed me to do it.    	  1年半前 Googleで 別な仕事をしていたときに 美術館とアートに関する アイデアを上司に提案しました 本人があそこにいますが やっても良いと言ってくれました  
 And it took 18 months.    	  1年半やってきて  
 A lot of fun, negotiations and stories, I can tell you,  with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries.    	  9カ国 17の美術館との交渉には 面白い話もいろいろあるんですが  
 But I'm going to focus on the demo.    	  今日はデモだけお見せすることにします  
 There are a lot of stories about why we did this.    	  これをやることにした理由は いろいろありますが  
 I think my personal story is explained very simply on the slide,  And I grew up in India.    	  私個人の理由は このスライドにあるような アクセスの問題です 私はインドで育ち  
 I had a great education -- I'm not complaining --  but I didn't have access to a lot of these museums and these artworks.    	  素晴らしい教育を受けられ 不満はありませんが 美術館や美術作品に接する機会は ほとんどありませんでした  
 And so when I started traveling and going to these museums,  I started learning a lot.    	  だから世界を旅行して 美術館に行くようになって 多くのことを学べました  
 And while working at Google,  I tried to put this desire  to make it more accessible with technology together.    	  そしてGoogleで働きながら 美術館をもっと身近に という願いを技術の力で実現すべく  
 So we formed a team, a great team of people,  and we started doing this.    	  優れた人たちを集めてチームを作り これに取り組み始めたのです  
 I'm going to probably get into the demo  and then tell you a couple of the interesting things  we've had since launch.    	  これからデモをご覧に入れ サイトの開始以来 私たちがやってきた 面白いことをいくつかご紹介します  
 So, simple: you come to GoogleArtProject.com.    	  使い方はすごく簡単です GoogleArtProject.comに行くと  
 You look around at all these museums here.    	  ここにある数々の美術館を 見て回ることができます  
 You've got the Uffizi, you've got the MoMA,  the Hermitage, the Rijks, the Van Gogh.    	  ウフィツィ MoMA エルミタージュ アムステルダム国美 ゴッホ美術館  
 I'm going to actually get to one of my favorites,  the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.    	  私の好きな ニューヨークの メトロポリタン美術館を選ぶことにしましょう  
 Two ways of going in -- very simple.    	  入り口が2つあります  
 Click and, bang, you're in this museum.    	  クリックすると パッ そこは美術館の中です  
 It doesn't matter where you are --  Bombay, Mexico, it doesn't really matter.    	  どこにいるかは関係ありません ボンベイたろうとメキシコだろうと  
 You move around, you have fun.    	  どこからでも 楽しむことができます  
 You want to navigate around the museum?    	  いろんな部屋を覗いてみたいですか？  
 Open the plan up,  and, in one click, jump.    	  フロアマップを開いて クリックするだけで ひとっ飛び  
 You're in there, you want to go to the end of the corridor.    	  回廊の向こう端まで行きたいですか？  
 Keep going. Have fun.    	  進むだけです  
 Explore.    	  お好きなように探索してください  
   Thanks. I haven't come to the best part.    	   面白くなるのはまだこれからですよ  
   So now I'm in front of one of my favorite paintings,  "The Harvesters" by Pieter Bruegel at the Met.    	   私の好きな絵の前に来ました ピーテル・ブリューゲルの 『穀物の収穫』です  
 I see this plus sign.    	  プラスマークがありますが  
 If the museum has given us the image, you click on it.    	  美術館が画像を提供している場合には  
 Now this is one of the images.    	  クリックして 拡大できます  
 So this is all of the meta-data information.    	  絵に関する様々な メタデータがあります  
 For those of you who are truly interested in art,  you can click this -- but I'm going to click this off right now.    	  美術に興味のある人なら 詳しく見たいと思うでしょうが 今は閉じておきます  
 And this is one of these images that we captured  in what we call gigapixel technology.    	  画像の撮影には ギガピクセル技術を使っています  
 So this image, for example,  has close to, I think, around 10 billion pixels.    	  この画像の場合だと 10ギガピクセルもあります  
 "What do you get for 10 billion pixels?"    	  「10ギガピクセルだと何ができるの？」と  
 So I'm going to try and show you what you really get for 10 billion pixels.    	  みんなに聞かれます 10ギガピクセルがどういうものか お見せしましょう  
 You can zoom around very simply.    	  楽々とズームできます  
 You see some fun stuff happening here.    	  ここでは楽しそうなことになっています  
 I love this guy; his expression is priceless.    	  この人いいですね 表情がなんとも言えません  
 But then you really want to go deep.    	  もっと詳しく見たくなります  
 And so I started playing around,  and I found something going on over here.    	  それでいろいろ見始めたら ここで何かやっているのに気づきました  
 And I was like, "Hold on. That sounds interesting."    	  「おや 何か面白そうだな」と思い  
 Went in, and I started noticing  that these kids were actually beating something.    	  近づいてみると 子どもたちが 何かにものを 投げつけているようです  
 I did a little research, spoke to a couple of my contacts at the Met,  and actually found out that this is a game  called squall,  which involves beating a goose with a stick  on Shrove Tuesday.    	  調べようと思って 美術館の知り合いに聞いてみたら これは「スクウェール」と 呼ばれる遊びで 告解火曜日に 棒をガチョウに 投げつけるのだそうです  
 And apparently it was quite popular.    	  人気のある遊びだったようです  
 I don't know why they did it,  but I learned something about it.    	  なんでそんなことをするのか わかりませんが 少し勉強になりました  
 Now just to get really deep in, you can really get to the cracks.    	  めいっぱい拡大すると 表面の細かいヒビまで見えます  
 Now just to give you some perspective,  I'm going to zoom out so you really see what you get.    	  全体像がわかるように ズームアウトしてみましょう  
 Here is where we were,  and this is the painting.    	  ここにいたわけですが･･･ これが絵の全体です  
   The best is yet to come -- so in a second.    	   面白いのはこの先です  
 So now let's just quickly  jump into the MoMA, again in New York.    	  今度はMoMAに飛んでみましょう こちらもニューヨークにあります  
 So another one of my favorites, "The Starry Night."    	  私のもう1つのお気に入りの 『星月夜』です  
 Now the example I showed you was all about finding details.    	  どれほど細かく見られるか ご覧いただきましたが  
 But what if you want to see brush strokes?    	  筆遣いはどうでしょう？  
 how Van Gogh actually created this masterpiece?    	  ゴッホはこの傑作をどう描いたのか  
 You zoom in. You really go in.    	  見られたら素敵ですよね？ どんどんズームしていきます  
 I'm going to go to one of my favorite parts in this painting,  and I'm really going to get to the cracks.    	  この絵で好きな部分です ヒビ割れまで細かく 見ることができます  
 This is "The Starry Night,"  I think, never seen like this before.    	  これが『星月夜』です こんな風にご覧になったことは きっとないでしょう  
 I'm going to show you my other favorite feature.    	  もう1つだけ好きな機能をお見せします  
 There's a lot of other stuff here, but I don't have time.    	  他にもたくさんあるんですが 時間がありません  
 This is the real cool part. It's called Collections.    	  すごくいかしています コレクションといって  
 Any one of you, anybody --  doesn't matter if you're rich, if you're poor,  if you have a fancy house -- doesn't matter.    	  誰であろうと お金持ちだろうと 貧乏人だろうと 豪華な家を持っていようといまいと 関係ありません  
 You can go and create your own museum online --  create your own collection across all these images.    	  自分の美術館をネット上に作れるのです このような画像を集めて 自分のコレクションを作れます  
 Very simply, you go in --  and I've created this, called The Power of Zoom --  you can just zoom around.    	  「ズームの力」という コレクションを作ってみました ナショナルギャラリーにある  
 This is "The Ambassadors," based in the National Gallery.    	  ホルバインの『大使たち』に ぐっとズームして  
 You can annotate the stuff, send it to your friends  and really get a conversation going  about what you're feeling  when you go through these masterpieces.    	  それにコメントを付けて 友達に送ったりできます このような名作を見て どう感じたか 意見を交わすことができるのです  
 So I think, in conclusion,  for me, the main thing  is that all the amazing stuff here does not really come from Google.    	  まとめになりますが 重要なのは この素晴らしいものをもたらしたのは Googleではないということです  
 It doesn't, in my opinion, even come from the museums.    	  美術館でもありません  
 I probably shouldn't say that.    	  そう言うべきではないのかもしれませんけど  
 It really comes from these artists.    	  本当の価値の源は 画家たちにあります  
 And that's been my humbling experience in this.    	  それがこれを通して学んだ ささやかな認識です  
 I mean, I hope in this digital medium  that we do justice to their artwork  and represent it properly online.    	  このデジタルメディアによって 画家たちの作品が正当に扱われ ネット上で適切な表現が 与えられることを願っています  
 And the biggest question I get asked nowadays  is, "Did you do this  to replicate the experience of going to a museum?"    	  私は最近よく聞かれます 「美術館に行く体験自体を 複製しようとしたのか？」  
 And the answer is no.    	  答えはノーです  
 It's to supplement the experience.    	  これは実際の体験を補うものです  
 And that's it. Thank you.    	  以上です ありがとうございました  
   Thank you.    	   ありがとうございます  
 Good afternoon, everybody.    	  皆さんこんにちは  
 I've got something to show you.    	  今日はあるものをお持ちしました  
   Think about this as a pixel, a flying pixel.    	   これを空飛ぶピクセルだと考えてください  
 This is what we call, in our lab, sensible design.    	  これが我々のラボでセンシブルデザインと呼んでいるものです  
 Let me tell you a bit about it.    	  まずこれについてお話しします  
 Now if you take this picture -- I'm Italian originally,  and every boy in Italy grows up  with this picture on the wall of his bedroom --  but the reason I'm showing you this  is that something very interesting  happened in Formula 1 racing  over the past couple of decades.    	  こちらの写真をご覧ください 私は元々イタリア人なのですが イタリアの子は寝室にこの絵を飾って育ちます この写真をお見せした理由は この数十年間で フォーミュラワンレースに とても興味深いことが起こったからです  
 Now some time ago,  if you wanted to win a Formula 1 race,  you take a budget, and you bet your budget  on a good driver and a good car.    	  少し前までは もし F1 レースで勝ちたければ 運営費を獲得し それを素晴らしい ドライバーと車につぎ込めば良かったのです  
 And if the car and the driver were good enough, then you'd win the race.    	  車とドライバーが十分に良ければレースに勝てました  
 Now today, if you want to win the race,  actually you need also something like this --  something that monitors the car in real time,  has a few thousand sensors  collecting information from the car,  transmitting this information into the system,  and then processing it  and using it in order to go back to the car with decisions  and changing things in real time as information is collected.    	  今日 レースに勝ちたいと思ったら このようなものが必要になります リアルタイムに車をモニタします 千個以上のセンサで 車から情報を収集し その情報をシステムに送り 処理します 情報収集と並行して 車へ評価を送り返し リアルタイムで変更を加えていくのです  
 This is what, in engineering terms,  you would call a real time control system.    	  これは工学用語で リアルタイム制御システムと呼ばれるものです  
 And basically, it's a system made of two components --  a sensing and an actuating component.    	  これは基本的に二つの要素から成っています センサとアクチュエータです  
 What is interesting today  is that real time control systems  are starting to enter into our lives.    	  本日お話しする内容で面白いのは リアルタイム制御システムが 我々の生活でも使われ始めているということです  
 Our cities, over the past few years,  with networks, electronics.    	  この数年で我々の都市は ネットワークや電子機器で  
 They're becoming like computers in open air.    	  覆われるようになりました  
 And, as computers in open air,  they're starting to respond in a different way  to be able to be sensed and to be actuated.    	  空気中にコンピュータが存在するが如くです そしてこのコンピュータは 以前とは違う働きをしはじめます  
 If we fix cities, actually it's a big deal.    	  センシングおよびアクチュエートされるようにです  
 Just as an aside, I wanted to mention,  cities are only two percent of the Earth's crust,  but they are 50 percent of the world's population.    	  全都市を整えるのは大変なことです ちなみに 都市は地球の 2% しか占めていませんが そこは世界人口の 50% も占めています  
 They are 75 percent of the energy consumption --  up to 80 percent of CO2 emissions.    	  また消費エネルギーの 75 % を占め 最大で CO2 排出量の 80% を担います  
 So if we're able to do something with cities, that's a big deal.    	  以上から 都市を変化させるのは大変なことだと分かります  
 Beyond cities,  all of this sensing and actuating  is entering our everyday objects.    	  あらゆる都市で センシングやアクチュエーティングが 私たちの日常に入り込んできています  
 That's from an exhibition that  Paola Antonelli is organizing  at MoMA later this year, during the summer.    	  こちらは夏に Paola Antonelli さんが運営している MoMA で発表されたものです  
 It's called "Talk to Me."    	  これは”Talk to Me”というものです  
 Well our objects, our environment  is starting to talk back to us.    	  物や環境が私たちに 語り返し始めてきているのです  
 In a certain sense, it's almost as if every atom out there  were becoming both a sensor and an actuator.    	  ある意味 そこに存在する原子全てが センサとアクチュエータへと変化していくかのようです  
 And that is radically changing the interaction we have as humans  with the environment out there.    	  それは私たち人間と環境との相互作用を 根本的に変えていっています  
 In a certain sense,  it's almost as if the old dream of Michelangelo ...    	  ある意味でそれは ミケランジェロの古い夢でのことのようです  
 you know, when Michelangelo sculpted the Moses,  at the end it said that he took the hammer, threw it at the Moses --  actually you can still see a small chip underneath --  and said, shouted,  "Perché non parli? Why don't you talk?"    	  ミケランジェロがモーゼスを彫ったとき ハンマーをモーゼスに投げつけ 現在でもその時の破片が下に残っているのですが 投げつけてこう叫びました 「なぜ何も語らない？」  
 Well today, for the first time,  our environment is starting to talk back to us.    	  そして今日 初めて環境が 私たちに語り返し始めています  
 And I'll show just a few examples --  again, with this idea of sensing our environment and actuating it.    	  これからお見せする例もまた 環境のセンシングとアクチュエーティングというアイディアです  
 Let's starting with sensing.    	  まずはセンシングについてお話しします  
 Well, the first project I wanted to share with you  is actually one of the first projects by our lab.    	  最初にお見せするプロジェクトは 実は私たちのラボの最初のプロジェクトです  
 It was four and a half years ago in Italy.    	  4 年半前のイタリアでのことです  
 And what we did there  was actually use a new type of network at the time  that had been deployed all across the world --  that's a cellphone network --  and use anonymous and aggregated information from that network,  that's collected anyway by the operator,  in order to understand  how the city works.    	  私たちはそこで 当時としては新しいタイプのネットワークであり 世界中に展開されている ケータイネットワークを利用しました そのネットワークから匿名な統計データを オペレータが収集し 都市の働きの理解のために 利用しました  
 The summer was a lucky summer -- 2006.    	  2006 年の夏は幸運でした  
 It's when Italy won the soccer World Cup.    	  イタリアがサッカーワールドカップで勝利した年です  
 Some of you might remember, it was Italy and France playing,  and then Zidane at the end, the headbutt.    	  覚えている方もおいででしょうが イタリア対フランス戦でジタンが頭突きをしました  
 And anyway, Italy won at the end.    	  とにかく イタリアが最終的には勝利しました  
   Now look at what happened that day  just by monitoring activity  happening on the network.    	   ではその日に何が起きたかを モニタ記録だけから ネットワークの動きを見ましょう  
 Here you see the city.    	  こちらが都市です  
 You see the Colosseum in the middle,  the river Tiber.    	  真ん中にコロシアムと テベレ川があります  
 It's morning, before the match.    	  これは試合前 朝のデータです  
 You see the timeline on the top.    	  上部にタイムラインが表示されています  
 Early afternoon,  people here and there,  making calls and moving.    	  お昼過ぎ 人々があちらこちらへ 電話をかけ 移動をしています  
 The match begins -- silence.    	  試合が始まり -- 静寂です  
 France scores. Italy scores.    	  フランスがゴールを決め イタリアがゴールを決め  
 Halftime, people make a quick call and go to the bathroom.    	  ハーフタイムに皆短い電話をかけたりトイレへ行きます  
 Second half. End of normal time.    	  後半戦 そして後半の終わり  
 First overtime, second.    	  延長戦の前半 そして後半  
 Zidane, the headbutt in a moment.    	  ジダンの頭突きの瞬間です  
 Italy wins. Yeah.    	  そしてイタリアの勝利 イェーイ  
     Well, that night, everybody went to celebrate in the center.    	    その晩は皆が中央でお祝いをしに行きました  
 You saw the big peak.    	  大きなピークがあるのが分かります  
 The following day, again everybody went to the center  to meet the winning team  and the prime minister at the time.    	  翌日 皆が中央へ 勝利したチームを見に行きました 時の首相もです  
 And then everybody moved down.    	  その後皆落ち着いていきます  
 You see the image of the place called Circo Massimo,  where, since Roman times, people go to celebrate,  to have a big party, and you see the peak at the end of the day.    	  チルコ・マッシモという場所がありますが ローマの時代より人々はここで盛大なパーティを開きました そこでその日の終わりにピークがあります  
 Well, that's just one example of how we can sense the city today  in a way that we couldn't have done  just a few years ago.    	  以上が今日の都市センシングの一例です ほんの数年前には 出来なかったことでした  
 Another quick example about sensing:  it's not about people,  but about things we use and consume.    	  センシングに関してもう一例挙げます 今度は人ではなく 私たちの消費に関するセンシングです  
 Well today, we know everything  about where our objects come from.    	  今日 私たちは物が どこから来るのか全て分かります  
 This is a map that shows you  all the chips that form a Mac computer, how they came together.    	  こちらの地図が示すのは マックコンピュータに使われる全ての部品が集まる経路ですが  
 But we know very little about where things go.    	  物がどこへ行くかについて 私たちはあまり知りません  
 So in this project,  we actually developed some small tags  to track trash as it moves through the system.    	  従って私たちのプロジェクトでは 小さなタグを開発し システム内でのゴミの移動を記録しました  
 So we actually started with a number of volunteers  who helped us in Seattle,  just over a year ago,  to tag what they were throwing away --  different types of things, as you can see here --  things they would throw away anyway.    	  私たちは協力してくれた数名のボランティアと共に シアトルでプロジェクトを開始しました たった一年前のことです 人々が何を捨てるかをタグ付けました ご覧の通り捨てられる物には さまざまな物があります  
 Then we put a little chip, little tag,  onto the trash  and then started following it.    	  私たちは小さなチップ タグを ゴミに付け 追跡を開始しました  
 Here are the results we just obtained.    	  こちらはその結果です  
   From Seattle ...    	   シアトルから……  
 after one week.    	  一週間後です  
 With this information we realized  there's a lot of inefficiencies in the system.    	  この情報から私たちは システムに膨大な無駄があることに気づきました  
 We can actually do the same thing with much less energy.    	  同様のことが より少ないエネルギーで実現できます  
 This data was not available before.    	  これはこれまで参照できなかったデータです  
 But there's a lot of wasted transportation and convoluted things happening.    	  無駄な輸送が沢山あり 複雑なことになっています  
 But the other thing is that we believe  that if we see every day  that the cup we're throwing away, it doesn't disappear,  it's still somewhere on the planet.    	  それとはまた別に 私たちが信じるのは もし毎日閲覧すると 例えばカップを捨てたとしてもそれは消えずに この惑星のどこかにまだ存在しているのが見えます  
 And the plastic bottle we're throwing away every day still stays there.    	  そして私たちが毎日捨てる ペットボトルはそこに残ります  
 And if we show that to people,  then we can also promote some behavioral change.    	  これを人々に提示すれば 行動の変化を促していけるでしょう  
 So that was the reason for the project.    	  こういった理由でプロジェクトを始めました  
 My colleague at MIT, Assaf Biderman,  he could tell you much more about sensing  and many other wonderful things we can do with sensing,  but I wanted to go to the second part we discussed at the beginning,  and that's actuating our environment.    	  私の同僚である MIT の Assaf Biderman は センシングの詳細と それを用いて 実現できる素晴らしいことについて語れますが ここで私は次に進んで 最初にお話しした 環境へのアクチュエーティングについてお話しします  
 And the first project  is something we did a couple of years ago in Zaragoza, Spain.    	  最初のプロジェクトは スペインのサラゴサで数年前に行いました  
 It started with a question by the mayor of the city,  who came to us saying  that Spain and Southern Europe have a beautiful tradition  of using water in public space, in architecture.    	  プロジェクトのきっかけは市長の質問で 私たちの所を訪ねて スペインや南ヨーロッパは素晴らしい伝統があり 公共の建築物に水を用いる 事の話をしている時です  
 And the question was: How could technology, new technology,  be added to that?    	  その時の質問は その伝統にどのように新しいテクノロジーを 付与できるかというものでした  
 And one of the ideas that was developed at MIT in a workshop  was, imagine this pipe, and you've got valves,  solenoid valves, taps,  opening and closing.    	  MIT のワークショップで開発されたアイデアの一つですが このようなパイプとバルブを想像してください つまみが付いた電磁弁で 開閉します  
 You create like a water curtain with pixels made of water.    	  水から成るピクセルを用いたウォーターカーテンを作りました  
 If those pixels fall,  you can write on it,  you can show patterns, images, text.    	  ピクセルを降らせ その上に パターン 絵 文字などを表現できます  
 And even you can approach it, and it will open up  to let you jump through,  as you see in this image.    	  近づくことも可能です すると ジャンプして通れるように こちらの写真のように開きます  
 Well, we presented this to Mayor Belloch.    	  こちらをベヨッホ市長にお見せしたところ  
 He liked it very much.    	  大変気に入られ  
 And we got a commission to design a building  at the entrance of the expo.    	  サラゴサ国際博覧会の入り口の建物のデザインを 受注することになりました  
 We called it Digital Water Pavilion.    	  私たちはデジタルウォーターパビリオンと名付けました  
 The whole building is made of water.    	  建物全体が水で出来ています  
 There's no doors or windows,  but when you approach it,  it will open up to let you in.    	  ドアも窓もありませんが 近づくと 入れるように開きます  
   The roof also is covered with water.    	   天井も水で覆われています  
 And if there's a bit of wind,  if you want to minimize splashing, you can actually lower the roof.    	  また風があるときには 水しぶきを減らすために天井を下げることも可能です  
 Or you could close the building,  and the whole architecture will disappear,  like in this case.    	  もしくは建物をしまうこともできます するとこのように建物全体が 消えます  
 You know, these days, you always get images during the winter,  when they take the roof down,  of people who have been there and said, "They demolished the building."    	  知っての通り最近では 冬に持つイメージとして 建物の屋根を下げていると ここ訪れる人たちは「建物が撤去された」といつも言いますが  
 No, they didn't demolish it, just when it goes down,  the architecture almost disappears.    	  そうではないのです 屋根が下がると建物も消えるだけです  
 Here's the building working.    	  これは建物が動いている様子です  
 You see the person puzzled about what was going on inside.    	  何がおこっているのか不思議そうに見ている人がいます  
 And here was myself trying not to get wet,  testing the sensors that open the water.    	  これは私が濡れないように 水を開くセンサのテストをしているところです  
 Well, I should tell you now what happened one night  when all of the sensors stopped working.    	  さて ある夜の出来事をお話しします 全てのセンサが停止しました  
 But actually that night, it was even more fun.    	  しかし　その夜はいつもより楽しかったです  
 All the kids from Zaragoza came to the building,  because the way of engaging with the building became something different.    	  サラゴサ中の子供が集まりました なぜならこの建物への関わり方が変わったからです  
 Not anymore a building that would open up to let you in,  but a building that would still make cuts and holes through the water,  and you had to jump without getting wet.    	  近づいてもウォーターカーテンは開きませんが 水に切れ目や穴は作りますので 濡れずに入るには飛び込むしかありません  
    And that was, for us, was very interesting,  because, as architects, as engineers, as designers,  we always think about how people will use the things we design.    	    それは　私たちにとって非常に興味深いことでした なぜなら　建築家 技術者 設計者として 私たちは常にユーザがどう扱うかを考えていますが  
 But then reality's always unpredictable.    	  現実は常に予想が外れます  
 And that's the beauty of doing things  that are used and interact with people.    	  そしてこれこそが人々に関わる 物作りの醍醐味です。  
 Here is an image then of the building  with the physical pixels, the pixels made of water,  and then projections on them.    	  この画像は建物の様子と 水からできている物質的なピクセルへ 投影している様子です  
 the following project I'll show you now.    	  これこそが次にお見せするプロジェクトを  
 That's, imagine those pixels could actually start flying.    	  考えるきっかけとなりました このピクセルが実際に飛ぶところを想像してください  
 Imagine you could have small helicopters  that move in the air,  and then each of them with a small pixel in changing lights --  almost as a cloud that can move in space.    	  小さなヘリコプターを 空中で動き それぞれの小さいピクセルが色を変えながら 雲のように移動するのを想像して下さい  
 Here is the video.    	  こちらがそのビデオです  
   So imagine one helicopter,  moving with others,  in synchrony.    	   先ほど見たような ヘリコプターを想像してください 他のピクセルと動き 同期します  
 So you can have this cloud.    	  すると このような雲ができます  
 You can have a kind of flexible screen or display, like this --  a regular configuration in two dimensions.    	  このような柔軟なディスプレイを作ることも可能です 二次元の通常の構造をしています  
 Or in regular, but in three dimensions,  where the thing that changes is the light,  not the pixels' position.    	  通常の構造を三次元空間で 光を変化させます ピクセルの位置はそのまま  
 You can play with a different type.    	  さまざまな表現が可能です  
 Imagine your screen could just appear  in different scales or sizes,  different types of resolution.    	  スクリーンが現れ 異なる比率 サイズ 解像度に 自在に変化するところを想像してください  
 But then the whole thing can be  just a 3D cloud of pixels  that you can approach and move through it  and see from many, many directions.    	  また　全体を ３Dピクセルの集まりとして 近づき 入り込む事を 様々な方向から行う事もできます  
 Here is the real Flyfire  control and going down to form the regular grid as before.    	  これが本物の Flyfire です 先程の通常のグリッドを作るために下降させています  
 When you turn on the light, actually you see this. So the same as we saw before.    	  照明を付けると実はこうなっています  
 And imagine each of them then controlled by people.    	  これが人々によって制御されるところを想像してください  
 You can have each pixel  having an input that comes from people,  from people's movement, or so and so.    	  それぞれのピクセルが 入力として人や 人の行動などから受け取ります  
 I want to show you something here for the first time.    	  ここで初めて見せたい物があります  
 We've been working with Roberto Bolle,  one of today's top ballet dancers --  the étoile at Metropolitan in New York  and La Scala in Milan --  and actually captured his movement in 3D  in order to use it as an input for Flyfire.    	  私たちは仕事を Roberto Bolle さん 当代有名なバレーダンサーで ニューヨーク メトロポリタンと ミラン スカラ座のスター と行い 3D キャプチャで彼の動きを捉え フライファイアの入力に用いました  
 And here you can see Roberto dancing.    	  こちらが Roberto が踊っている様子です  
 You see on the left the pixels,  the different resolutions being captured.    	  左側のピクセルを見ると 異なる解像度でキャプチャしていることが分かります  
 It's both 3D scanning in real time  and motion capture.    	  これはリアルタイムの 3D スキャンと モーションキャプチャの両方を用いています  
 So you can reconstruct a whole movement.    	  それによって動きを全て再構成できます  
 You can go all the way through.    	  こういったことまで可能です  
 But then, once we have the pixels, then you can play with them  and play with color and movement  and gravity and rotation.    	  一度ピクセルを作れば 好きなように使えます 色や動きを変更できます 重力や回転も利用できます  
 So we want to use this as one of the possible inputs  for Flyfire.    	  入力の一つの可能性として私たちはこれを Flyfire に使いたいのです  
 I wanted to show you the last project we are working on.    	  私は直近のプロジェクトをお見せしたいと思います  
 It's something we're working on for the London Olympics.    	  これはロンドンオリンピックに向けて作っているもので  
 It's called The Cloud.    	  The Cloud と呼びます  
 And the idea here is, imagine, again,  we can involve people  in doing something and changing our environment --  almost to impart what we call cloud raising --  like barn raising, but with a cloud.    	  このアイディアも想像で 人々の参画と それによる環境の変化を取り入れています 雲上げと呼ぶこの活動は 棟上げを雲で表しています  
 Imagine you can have everybody make a small donation for one pixel.    	  1 ピクセルに対して皆が少額の寄付を行えるのを想像してください  
 And I think what is remarkable  that has happened over the past couple of years  is that, over the past couple of decades,  we went from the physical world to the digital one.    	  私は とても素晴らしく思うのは ここ数年間で行われた ここ数十年間で行われていた アナログ界から物質界への移行だと思います  
 This has been digitizing everything, knowledge,  and making that accessible through the Internet.    	  これによって知識など 全てがデジタル化され インターネットを通してアクセス可能になりました  
 Now today, for the first time --  and the Obama campaign showed us this --  we can go from the digital world,  from the self-organizing power of networks,  to the physical one.    	  今日　史上初めて オバマキャンペーンでも示されましたが 私たちはデジタルの世界から ネットワークの自己組織力を通して 物質界へ行けるようになりました  
 This can be, in our case,  we want to use it for designing and doing a symbol.    	  これは　私達の場合 シンボルの設計と利用に使いたいと思います  
 That means something built in a city.    	  都市に組み込んだ意味としてです  
 But tomorrow it can be,  in order to tackle today's pressing challenges --  think about climate change or CO2 emissions --  how we can go from the digital world to the physical one.    	  しかし明日には 今日迫ってくる挑戦に取り組む事によって 例えば気候変動や二酸化炭素排出について考える事によって デジタル界から物質界への移行方法が実現します  
 So the idea that we can actually involve people  in doing this thing together, collectively.    	  私たちの人々を参画させるアイディアで 皆を集合的にまとめ行います  
 The cloud is a cloud, again, made of pixels,  in the same way as the real cloud  is a cloud made of particles.    	  The Cloud は雲であり　ピクセルで作られています 実際の雲と同様に 粒子から成っています  
 And those particles are water,  where our cloud is a cloud of pixels.    	  雲の粒子は水ですが 私たちの雲はピクセルの雲です  
 It's a physical structure in London, but covered with pixels.    	  これはロンドンにある物質界の建築物ですが、ピクセルで覆われています  
 You can move inside, have different types of experiences.    	  内部で動き　様々な体験ができます  
 You can actually see from underneath,  sharing the main moments  for the Olympics in 2012 and beyond,  and really using it as a way to connect with the community.    	  下部から見上げることもでき 重要な瞬間な共有を 2012のオリンピックとその後もできます そしてコミュニティとの繋がりに利用できます  
 So both the physical cloud in the sky  and something you can go to the top [of],  like London's new mountaintop.    	  なので　空にある物質的な雲に加え 一番上まで登ることのできる ロンドンの新たな山頂のようなものとなります  
 You can enter inside it.    	  中に入ることはできます  
 And a kind of new digital beacon for the night --  but most importantly,  a new type of experience for anybody who will go to the top.    	  新しいデジタル灯台とも表現できますが 最も重要なの事は 登頂者全員に新しい体験をしてもらうことです  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 How would you like to be better than you are?    	  どうやってよりよい自分になりたいですか  
 Suppose I said  that, with just a few changes in your genes,  you could get a better memory --  more precise,  more accurate and quicker.    	  例えば 遺伝子を少し組み替えるだけで 記憶力をよくできます より明確で 素早く正確に思い出せます  
 Or maybe you'd like to be more fit, stronger,  with more stamina.    	  あるいは より健康的で強くなりたいですか スタミナつきで  
 Would you like to be more attractive and self-confident?    	  とても魅力的で自信のある人になりたいですか  
 How about living longer with good health?    	  健康的で長生きするのはどうでしょうか  
 Or perhaps you're one of those  who's always yearned for more creativity.    	  あるいは あなたはいつも 創造力を欲していたかもしれません  
 Which one would you like the most?    	  どれが一番気に入りましたか  
 Which would you like, if you could have just one?    	  1つだけ可能なら どれを選びますか  
   Creativity.    	   創造力  
 How many people would choose creativity?    	  創造力を選択する人はどれくらいいますか  
 Raise your hands. Let me see.    	  手を挙げてみせてください  
 A few. Probably about as many as there are creative people here.    	  少しですね ここにいる独創的な人の数と大体同じですか  
  That's very good.    	  いいですね  
 How many would opt for memory?    	  記憶力を選ぶ人はどれくらいいますか  
 Quite a few more.    	  かなり増えましたね  
 How about fitness?    	  健康はどうでしょうか  
 A few less.    	  少し減りましたね  
 What about longevity?    	  長寿はいかがですか  
 Ah, the majority. That makes me feel very good as a doctor.    	  大多数ですね 1人の医者として非常に嬉しいです  
 If you could have any one of these,  it would be a very different world.    	  もしこれらの内の1つでも得られたら とても違う世界になるでしょう  
 Is it just imaginary?    	  ただの空想ですか  
 Or, is it, perhaps, possible?    	  それとも可能でしょうか  
 Evolution has been a perennial topic  here at the TED Conference,  but I want to give you today  one doctor's take on the subject.    	  進化はここTEDにて 繰り返される主題ですが 今日は医者としての見解を 皆さんに伝えたいと思います  
 The great 20th-century geneticist,  who was also a communicant  in the Russian Orthodox Church,  once wrote an essay that he titled  "Nothing in Biology Makes Sense  Except in the Light of Evolution."    	  20世紀の偉大な遺伝学者 T.G. ドブジャンスキーは ロシア正教会の 受聖餐者でもありました かつて彼はある随筆を書きました 「進化の光に当ててみなければ 生物学のどんな知識も意味を持たない」  
 Now if you are one of those  who does not accept the evidence for biological evolution,  this would be a very good time to turn off your hearing aid,  take out your personal communications device --  I give you permission --  and perhaps take another look at Kathryn Schultz's book on being wrong,  because nothing in the rest of this talk  is going to make any sense whatsoever to you.    	  さて もしあなたが 生物進化の証拠を受け入れない人ならば これはとても良い時間になりますよ あなたの補聴器をオフにし あなたのコミュニケーション装置を取り出し どうぞ取り出してください そしてキャサリン・シュルツの「間違っている」をもう一度読む必要があるのかもしれません なぜならこれから話す内容は 全くをもってあなたに関係ないものですから  
   But if you do accept  biological evolution,  consider this:  is it just about the past,  or is it about the future?    	   しかし もし生物進化を 受け入れるなら これを考えてください それは単に過去のことなのか それとも未来のことなのか  
 Does it apply to others,  or does it apply to us?    	  周りに当てはまることか あるいは我々のことか  
 This is another look at the tree of life.    	  これは命の樹形図の別の見方です  
 In this picture,  I've put a bush with a center branching out in all directions,  because if you look at the edges  of the tree of life,  every existing species  at the tips of those branches  has succeeded in evolutionary terms:  it has survived;  it has demonstrated a fitness  to its environment.    	  この図の中で 私は茂みを中心から全方向に伸びるように書きました なぜなら もし命の樹の端を 見たとき 枝の先に書かれている すべての生存種は 進化用語で言う成功です つまり生存しています それは環境に対しての適応度を 示しています  
 The human part of this branch,  way out on one end,  is, of course, the one that we are most interested in.    	  枝端のひとつである 人類の部分は もちろん 我々が最も興味のあるところでしょう  
 We branch off of a common ancestor  to modern chimpanzees  about six or eight million years ago.    	  我々は約600～800万年前に 共通の先祖から 現代のチンパンジーへと分岐しています  
 In the interval,  there have been perhaps 20 or 25  different species of hominids.    	  その過程の中に おそらく20～25種類の異なる 原人がいます  
 Some have come and gone.    	  新種がきて そして消えていきます  
 We have been here for about 130,000 years.    	  我々はこの世界に約13万年もいます  
 It may seem like we're quite remote  from other parts of this tree of life,  but actually, for the most part,  the basic machinery of our cells  is pretty much the same.    	  それはまるで我々は他の生物種とは かけ離れているかのようです しかし実際は大半の部分では 我々の遺伝子の基盤は ほとんど違わないのです  
 Do you realize that we can take advantage  and commandeer the machinery of a common bacterium  to produce the protein of human insulin  used to treat diabetics?    	  お気づきでしょうか 我々は共通のバクテリアの基盤を搾取して活用し 糖尿病治療用にヒトインスリンのタンパク質を 作ることが出来ます  
 This is not like human insulin;  this is the same protein  that is chemically indistinguishable  from what comes out of your pancreas.    	  これはヒトインスリンではないですが 同じタンパク質であり 人間の膵臓から生成されるタンパク質と 化学的な区別が出来ません  
 And speaking of bacteria,  do you realize that each of us carries in our gut  more bacteria  than there are cells in the rest of our body?    	  バクテリアと言えば 我々は身体中にある細胞の数より 多くのバクテリアを 内臓内にもっていることにお気づきでしょうか  
 Maybe 10 times more.    	  およそ10倍多いです  
 I mean think of it,  when Antonio Damasio asks about your self-image,  do you think about the bacteria?    	  つまり考えてみてください アントニオ・ダマシオが自己イメージについて尋ねたとき あなたはバクテリアについて考えますか  
 Our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment  for those bacteria.    	  我々の内臓はバクテリアにとって素晴らしいくらい 親切な環境なのです  
 It's warm, it's dark, it's moist,  it's very cozy.    	  暖かくて暗くて湿気もあり とても住みやすいです  
 And you're going to provide all the nutrition that they could possibly want  with no effort on their part.    	  そしてバクテリアは望む全ての栄養を手に入れられるのです 努力することなく  
 It's really like an Easy Street for bacteria,  of the unintended forced rush to the exit.    	  それはバクテリアにとって安楽生活なのです たまに予想外に出口へ流れていく 妨害がありますが  
 But otherwise,  you are a wonderful environment for those bacteria,  just as they are essential to your life.    	  それを除けば あなたはバクテリアにとって素晴らしい環境なのです ちょうど我々の生活にそれらが必要なように  
 They help in the digestion of essential nutrients,  and they protect you against certain diseases.    	  バクテリアは必須栄養素の消化を手助け あなたを特定の病気から保護します  
 But what will come in the future?    	  しかし未来はどうなるでしょうか  
 Are we at some kind of evolutionary equipoise  as a species?    	  我々は種の進化の均衡地点に いるのでしょうか  
 Or, are we destined  to become something different --  something, perhaps, even better adapted  to the environment?    	  あるいは我々は 何か違うものに変わる運命なのでしょうか もしかしたら今まで以上に環境に適応したものに なるのでしょうか  
 Now let's take a step back in time  to the Big Bang, 14 billion years ago --  the Earth, the solar system,  about four and a half billion years --  the first signs of proto-life,  maybe three to four billion years ago on Earth --  the first multi-celled organisms,  as 800 or a billion years ago --  and then the human species,  finally emerging  in the last 130,000 years. In this vast unfinished symphony of the universe,    	  では少し時間を遡ってみましょう 140億年前のビッグバン 約45億年前の 地球と太陽系の形成 だいたい3～4億年前の 地球上の最初の原生生物が現れ だいたい8億年前から 10億年前までに 誕生した多細胞生物 そして13万年前に ついに誕生した 人類 この終わりのない宇宙のシンフォニーの中で  
 life on Earth is like a brief measure;  the animal kingdom,  like a single measure;  and human life,  a small grace note.    	  地球上の生命は一つの尺度です 動物界も 一つの尺度でり 人間の命もまた 一つの優雅な切れ端です  
 That was us.    	  我々です  
 That also constitutes the entertainment portion of this talk,  so I hope you enjoyed it.    	  それはまたこの話の面白い部分でもありますので 楽しんでもらえればと思います  
   Now when I was a freshman in college,  I took my first biology class.    	   さて私が大学1年生のとき 初めて生物学の授業を取りました  
 I was fascinated  by the elegance and beauty of biology.    	  生物学の優雅さと 美しさに私は魅了されました  
 I became enamored of the power of evolution,  and I realized something very fundamental:  in most of the existence of life  in single-celled organisms,  each cell simply divides,  and all of the genetic energy of that cell  is carried on in both daughter cells.    	  私は進化の力に夢中になり 何かとても根本的なものに気づきました 実存するほとんどの生命体の中で 原生生物の中では それぞれの細胞が分裂し その細胞のすべての遺伝エネルギーが 両方の娘細胞に受け継がれます  
 But at the time multi-celled organisms come online,  things start to change.    	  しかし世界に複合細胞が出てくると 物事は変わり始めます  
 Sexual reproduction enters the picture.    	  有性生殖が入ってきます  
 And very importantly,  with the introduction of sexual reproduction  that passes on the genome,  the rest of the body  becomes expendable.    	  とても大事なことですが 有性生殖が行われるということは 有性生殖はゲノムを伝達し 残った身体は 使い捨てにされます  
 In fact, you could say  that the inevitability of the death of our bodies  enters in evolutionary time  at the same moment  as sexual reproduction.    	  実際こう言えるかもしれません 我々の身体の死の不可避性は 有性生殖と同じ時に起こる 進化の時に 現れます  
 Now I have to confess,  when I was a college undergraduate,  I thought, okay, sex/death, sex/death, death for sex --  it seemed pretty reasonable at the time,  but with each passing year,  I've come to have increasing doubts.    	  今なら私は認めます 大学生だった頃 性か死 性か死 性のための死と考えていました 当時はそれが道理の通ったことだと思っていました しかし年が経つにつれ 疑いを持つようになりました  
 I've come to understand the sentiments of George Burns,  who was performing still in Las Vegas  well into his 90s.    	  だんだんジョージ・バーンズの気持ちが分かってきました 彼は今もなおラスベガスで活動中です とっくに90代ですが  
 And one night, there's a knock at his hotel room door.    	  ある夜 彼のホテルの部屋にノックがありました  
 He answers the door.    	  彼はドアを開けます  
 Standing before him is a gorgeous, scantily clad showgirl.    	  そこに立っているのは薄着の華麗な女優でした  
 She looks at him and says,  "I'm here for super sex."    	  そして彼を見て言います 「激しいセックスをしに来たのよ」  
 "That's fine," says George, "I'll take the soup."    	  「構わないが私はスープを飲む」と彼は応えました  
   I came to realize,  as a physician,  that I was working toward a goal  which was different from the goal of evolution --  not necessarily contradictory, just different.    	   私は内科医として 気づきました 私は目標に向かって働いていますが それは進化の目標とは異なっていました 正反対ではないのですが単に違ったのです  
 I was trying to preserve the body.    	  私は身体を守ろうとしていました  
 I wanted to keep us healthy.    	  健康的であることを望み  
 I wanted to restore health from disease.    	  病気から回復することを望み  
 I wanted us to live long and healthy lives.    	  そして長寿と健康的な生活を望みました  
 Evolution is all about passing on the genome  to the next generation,  adapting and surviving  through generation after generation.    	  進化というのはゲノムを次の世代へと伝え 適応して 世代を通して 生き延びていくことなのです  
 From an evolutionary point of view,  you and I are like the booster rockets  designed to send the genetic payload  into the next level of orbit  and then drop off into the sea.    	  進化という点から観てみると 我々はロケットブースターのようなものです 遺伝の観測機器を次の軌道に送り その後は海に落ちていくように 設計されたようなものです  
 I think we would all understand the sentiment that Woody Allen expressed  when he said, "I don't want to achieve immortality through my work.    	  我々は皆 ウッディー・アレンが述べたような気持ちを理解していると思います 彼は言いました 「私はこの研究を通して不死を成し遂げたいのではない  
 I want to achieve it through not dying."    	  私は死なないことでこの研究を成し遂げたいのだ」  
   Evolution does not necessarily  favor the longest-lived.    	   進化というものは必ずしも 長寿を表していません  
 It doesn't necessarily favor the biggest  or the strongest or the fastest,  and not even the smartest.    	  また必ずしも 最大や最強や最速 もしくは世界一の賢さですら 表していません  
 Evolution favors  those creatures best adapted  to their environment.    	  進化というのは 最も環境に適応した生物を 表しているのです  
 That is the sole test  of survival and success.    	  それは生存と成功の 唯一の試練です  
 At the bottom of the ocean,  bacteria that are thermophilic  and can survive at the steam vent heat  that would otherwise produce, if fish were there,  sous-vide cooked fish,  nevertheless, have managed  to make that a hospitable environment for them.    	  海底では 好熱性で 蒸気から出る熱に耐えられるバクテリアが 環境を適応させることに成功しています 蒸気から出る熱は 普段は魚を 真空調理するために使われているような熱です  
 So what does this mean,  as we look back at what has happened in evolution,  and as we think about the place again of humans in evolution,  and particularly as we look ahead  to the next phase,  I would say  that there are a number of possibilities.    	  これは何を意味するのでしょうか 我々は進化の過程を顧みて 進化の中の人間の位置を 再び考え そして特に次の段階を 予見します 私が思うに 数多くの可能性が存在します  
 The first is that we will not evolve.    	  1つ目は我々は進化しないということです  
 We have reached a kind of equipoise.    	  我々は一種の均衡点に  
 And the reasoning behind that would be,  first, we have, through medicine,  managed to preserve a lot of genes  and be removed from the population.    	  達したのです その背景理由としては まず我々は医療を通じて 本来なら排除され取り除かれてしまう たくさんの遺伝子を 保護することに成功しています  
 And secondly, we as a species  have so configured our environment  that we have managed to make it adapt to us  as well as we adapt to it.    	  さらに 1つの種として我々は 環境に適応する一方で 環境自体を我々に適応させるために 変えることができます  
 And by the way, we immigrate and circulate  and intermix so much  that you can't any longer  have the isolation that is necessary  for evolution to take place.    	  ところで我々は移動と循環と交流を 何度も行っているので 進化の必須条件である 孤立になることは もはや不可能なのです  
 A second possibility  is that there will be evolution of the traditional kind,  natural, imposed by the forces of nature.    	  2つ目の可能性は 自然の力によって引き起こされる 伝統的な種の進化が起こることです  
 And the argument here would be  that the wheels of evolution grind slowly,  but they are inexorable.    	  ここでの論点は 進化の回転は徐々に収まっていますが 止まることはないということです  
 And as far as isolation goes,  when we as a species  do colonize distant planets,  there will be the isolation and the environmental changes  that could produce evolution  in the natural way.    	  我々は1つの種として 離れた惑星を占領した時に 孤立化と環境変化が起きます そして孤立という環境がある限り 進化は自然な形で 起こり得るのです  
 But there's a third possibility,  an enticing, intriguing and frightening possibility.    	  しかしまだ3つ目の可能性もあり それは興味をそそる恐ろしい可能性です  
 I call it neo-evolution --  the new evolution  that is not simply natural,  but guided and chosen  by us as individuals  in the choices that we will make.    	  新進化と私は呼びます 新しい進化ですが 自然に起こるものではなく それは我々が 私的に決めて 引き起こす進化です  
 Now how could this come about?    	  これはどのように起こるのでしょうか  
 How could it be possible that we would do this?    	  どうやったら我々はそんなことができるのでしょうか  
 Consider, first, the reality  that people today, in some cultures,  are making choices about their offspring.    	  まずは現実を考えてください いくつかの文化では今日 子孫を選択することができます  
 They're, in some cultures,  choosing to have more males than females.    	  ある文化では 女性より多くの男性をもつことを選んでいます  
 It's not necessarily good for the society,  but it's what the individual and the family are choosing.    	  社会にとって必ずしも良いとは言えませんが それが個人とその家族が選択していることなのです  
 Think also,  if it were possible ever  for you to choose, not simply to choose the sex of your child,  but for you in your body  to make the genetic adjustments  that would cure or prevent diseases.    	  考えてください 選択が可能な場合を 選択と言っても単に子供の性別を選ぶのではなく あなたの身体の中の 遺伝子を調節することで 病気の予防や完治ができる選択です  
 What if you could make the genetic changes  to eliminate diabetes or Alzheimer's  or reduce the risk of cancer  or eliminate stroke?    	  遺伝子変化でこんなのはいかがでしょうか 糖尿病やアルツハイマーを取り除き 癌のリスクを減らし 脳卒中を食い止めます  
 Wouldn't you want  to make those changes  in your genes?    	  あなたの遺伝子を そのように変えたいと 思いませんか  
 If we look ahead,  these kind of changes  are going to be increasingly possible.    	  将来を見据えると これらの変化は ますます起こり得ます  
 The Human Genome Project  started in 1990,  and it took 13 years.    	  ヒトゲノム・プロジェクトは 1990年に始まり 13年掛かりました  
 It cost 2.7 billion dollars.    	  27億ドルのコストです  
 The year after it was finished in 2004,  you could do the same job  for 20 million dollars in three to four months.    	  2004年にそれが完了した次の年には あなたは同じ作業を 2000万ドルで3～4ヶ月を使ってできたのです  
 Today, you can have a complete sequence  of the three billion base pairs in the human genome  at a cost of about 20,000 dollars  and in the space of about a week.    	  今日ではヒトゲノムの 30億もの塩基対の完全な配列を 約2万ドルのコストと 1週間でできてしまうのです  
 It won't be very long  before the reality will be  the 1,000-dollar human genome,  and it will be increasingly available for everyone.    	  ヒトゲノムが 1000ドルとなり 皆が使えるようになるまで それほど長い時間はかからないでしょう  
 Just a week ago,  the National Academy of Engineering  awarded its Draper Prize  to Francis Arnold and Willem Stemmer,  two scientists who independently developed techniques  to encourage the natural process of evolution to work faster  and to lead to desirable proteins  in a more efficient way --  what Frances Arnold calls "directed evolution."    	  ちょうど1週間前 全米技術アカデミーは ドレイパー賞を送りました フランシス・アーノルドとウィリアム・ステマーに この2人の科学者は別々にある技術を発達させました その技術は進化の自然作用を速め 好ましいタンパク質をもたらします 効率のいい方法で それをフランシスは「進化分子工学」と呼びます  
 A couple of years ago, the Lasker Prize  was awarded to the scientist Shinya Yamanaka  for his research  in which he took an adult skin cell,  a fibroblast,  and by manipulating just four genes,  he induced that cell  to revert to a pluripotential stem cell --  a cell potentially capable  of becoming any cell in your body.    	  ２年前 山中伸弥さんは ラスカー賞を受賞されました 彼の研究では 大人の皮膚細胞である線維芽細胞を 使用し 4つの遺伝子を操作することで その線維芽細胞を 多能性幹細胞に変化させます 多能性幹細胞は体内の どんな細胞にも成り得るのです  
 These changes are coming.    	  変化は到来しています  
 The same technology  that has produced the human insulin in bacteria  can make viruses  that will not only protect you against themselves,  but induce immunity against other viruses.    	  バクテリア内に ヒトインスリンを作るのと全く同じ技術で ウイルスが作れ 単にそのウイルスからあなたを保護するだけではなく 他のウイルスの抗体まで作れるのです  
 Believe it or not,  there's an experimental trial going on  with vaccine against influenza  that has been grown in the cells of a tobacco plant.    	  驚くことに 煙草の葉の細胞内で育てられた インフルエンザのワクチンの 実験検査が現在行われています  
 Can you imagine something good coming out of tobacco?    	  煙草から良い物が生成されるなんて想像できますか  
 These are all reality today,  and [in] the future, will be evermore possible.    	  これらは現実なのです 将来的にはさらなる可能性があります  
 Imagine then  just two other little changes.    	  想像して下さい 他の2つの小さな変化を  
 You can change the cells in your body,  but what if you could change the cells in your offspring?    	  体内の細胞を変えられるわけですが あなたの子孫の細胞を変えるとしたらどうしますか  
 What if you could change the sperm and the ova,  or change the newly fertilized egg,  and give your offspring a better chance  at a healthier life --  eliminate the diabetes, eliminate the hemophilia,  reduce the risk of cancer?    	  精子と卵子を変えられたらどうでしょうか あるいは受精卵を変えて 子孫に健康な生活の機会を与えるのは どうでしょうか 糖尿病や血友病を取り除き 癌のリスクを 減らすこともできます  
 Who doesn't want healthier children?    	  健康な子供を欲しくない人がいるでしょうか  
 And then, that same analytic technology,  that same engine of science  that can produce  the changes to prevent disease,  will also enable us  that better memory.    	  そして これと全く同じ分析技術ですが 病気を予防する変化を 起こすことができる 同じ種類の科学的動力によって 我々はまた 記憶力を良くするために 容量を増やすといった  
 Why not have the quick wit  of a Ken Jennings,  especially if you can augment it  with the next generation of the Watson machine?    	  超特性を得られるのです ケン・ジェニングの速い理解力を 備えてみませんか 特に次世代のワトソンマシーンと クイズ対決をする時に  
 Why not have the quick twitch muscle  that will enable you to run faster and longer?    	  速く そして 長く走ることを可能にする ピクッと動く筋肉を備えてみませんか  
 Why not live longer?    	  長生きしてみませんか  
 These will be irresistible.    	  これらはとても魅力的です  
 And when we are at a position  where we can pass it on to the next generation,  and we can adopt the attributes we want,  we will have converted  old-style evolution  into neo-evolution.    	  我々が次世代にそれを与え そして自分たちが望む特性を備えられる時代に 我々が到達した時 旧来型の進化は 新進化に 変わっているでしょう  
 We'll take a process  that normally might require 100,000 years,  and we can compress it down to a thousand years --  and maybe even in the next 100 years.    	  我々は通常なら 10万年を必要とするであろうプロセスを 1000年に圧縮することができます 100年にすらできるかもしれません  
 These are choices that your grandchildren,  or their grandchildren,  are going to have before them.    	  これらはあなたの孫や そのまた孫が 生前から持つことになる  
 Will we use these choices  to make a society that is better,  that is more successful, that is kinder?    	  選択なのです 我々はこういった選択を 社会を良くしたり 繁栄させたり 便利にするのに使っていいのでしょうか  
 Or, will we selectively choose different attributes  that we want for some of us  and not for others of us?    	  あるいは 我々はそれぞれが欲しい特性を 自分たちのためだけに選び取り 他には関与しないべきですか  
 Will we make a society  that is more boring and more uniform,  or more robust and more versatile?    	  退屈で 決まりきった社会 あるいは 活気があって変化のある社会を 我々は作るのでしょうか  
 These are the kinds of questions  that we will have to face.    	  これらは我々が将来的に 対面する質問です  
 And most profoundly of all,  will we ever be able to develop the wisdom,  and to inherit the wisdom,  that we'll need to make these choices wisely?    	  そして何よりも重要な事ですが 我々はこの知恵を発達し 受け継がせることを 賢い選択の上でできるのでしょうか  
 For better or worse,  and sooner than you may think,  these choices will be up to us.    	  良いのか悪いのか あなたが考える以上に早く これらの選択がやってくるでしょう  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 Imagine a plane full of smoke.    	  想像してみてください  
 Imagine an engine going clack, clack, clack.    	  上空900メートルを越えて上昇中に大爆発  
 It sounds scary.    	  機体は煙に包まれています  
 Well, I had a unique seat that day.    	  エンジン音が カラッ カラッ カラッ  
 I was sitting in 1D.    	  カラッ カラッ カラッ カラッ  
 I was the only one who could talk to the flight attendants.    	  不安に襲われてきます その日は ちょうど「1D」に座っていました  
 So I looked at them right away,  and they said, "No problem. We probably hit some birds."    	  客室乗務員と話せる唯一の席です さっと 視線を送ると 「大丈夫ですよ 鳥があたったようですね」  
 The pilot had already turned the plane around,  and we weren't that far.    	  でも飛行機は 方向転換しています 飛び立ってすぐで  
 You could see Manhattan.    	  マンハッタンが見えています  
 Two minutes later,  three things happened at the same time.    	  ２分後 同時に 三つの事が起こりました  
 The pilot lines up the plane with the Hudson River.    	  ハドソン川と並行するように機体が向けられました  
 That's usually not the route.    	  いつもの経路ではありません  
   He turns off the engines.    	   エンジンを切って  
 Now, imagine being in a plane with no sound.    	  機内を静寂が包む中  
 And then he says three words.    	  機長の声が流れます  
 The most unemotional three words I've ever heard.    	  初めて聞く とても冷静な一言です  
 He says, "Brace for impact."    	  「衝撃に備えてください」  
 I didn't have to talk to the flight attendant anymore.    	  客室乗務員に聞く必要はもうない  
   I could see in her eyes, it was terror.    	   客室乗務員の目を見ると 恐怖が読み取れ 死ぬんだと思いました  
 Now I want to share with you three things I learned about myself that day.    	  その日 学んだ三つのことをお話しします  
 I learned that it all changes in an instant.    	  まず 一瞬で何もかもが変わるということ  
 We have this bucket list,  we have these things we want to do in life,  and I thought about all the people I wanted to reach out to that I didn't,  all the fences I wanted to mend,  all the experiences I wanted to have and I never did.    	  だれにでも やるべき事や やりたいことが たくさんあります 連絡をとるつもりだった人 修理したかったフェンス やり残したことなどが 浮かんできました  
 As I thought about that later on,  I came up with a saying,  which is, "I collect bad wines."    	  後で その時の思いを振り返って こう思い立ちました 「安物のワインを集めよう」  
 Because if the wine is ready and the person is there, I'm opening it.    	  そんなワインなら 人が来たときに開けられるからです  
 I no longer want to postpone anything in life.    	  もう 人生で 何も後回しにしたくない  
 And that urgency, that purpose, has really changed my life.    	  そういった切迫感と決意から 私の人生は大きく変わりました  
 The second thing I learned that day --  and this is as we clear the George Washington Bridge,  which was by not a lot --    I thought about, wow, I really feel one real regret.    	  そして二つ目 ― ジョージ・ワシントン・ブリッジの すぐ近くを通過しながら 感じていたのは まさに後悔の気持ちでした  
 I've lived a good life.    	  きちんと生きてきて  
 In my own humanity and mistakes,  I've tried to get better at everything I tried.    	  人を思いやったり つまずきながら 常に上を目指してきましたが  
 But in my humanity, I also allow my ego to get in.    	  思いやりの中には エゴもありました  
 And I regretted the time I wasted on things that did not matter  with people that matter.    	  大切な人との時間を どうでもよいことで 無駄にした という後悔を感じました  
 And I thought about my relationship with my wife,  with my friends, with people.    	  人間関係についても考えました 妻や友人などのこと  
 And after, as I reflected on that,  I decided to eliminate negative energy from my life.    	  後で それを思い返して 人生から負のエネルギーを排除することにしたら  
 It's not perfect, but it's a lot better.    	  ずいぶん楽になりました  
 I've not had a fight with my wife in two years.    	  ２年間 夫婦げんかはありません  
 It feels great.    	  最高です  
 I no longer try to be right;  I choose to be happy.    	  今 私が優先するのは 正しさより 幸せです  
 The third thing I learned --  and this is as your mental clock starts going, "15, 14, 13."    	  そして 三つ目 ― カウントダウンが始まって 「15... 14... 13...」  
 You can see the water coming.    	  水面が近づいてくると  
 I'm saying, "Please blow up."    	  「爆発してくれ」と思いました  
 I don't want this thing to break in 20 pieces  like you've seen in those documentaries.    	  ドキュメンタリーで見るように バラバラに吹き飛ぶのは嫌です  
 And as we're coming down,  I had a sense of, wow, dying is not scary.    	  どんどん下降する中 感じたのは 「死ぬのは怖くない」ということです  
 It's almost like we've been preparing for it our whole lives.    	  もとから心づもりがあったかのようです  
 But it was very sad.    	  でも とても悲しいのです  
 I didn't want to go; I love my life.    	  死にたくない 自分の人生が好きだ  
 And that sadness really framed in one thought,  which is, I only wish for one thing.    	  その悲しみは ある思いにつながりました たった一つの願いです  
 I only wish I could see my kids grow up.    	  「子どもの成長だけでも見届けたい」  
 About a month later, I was at a performance by my daughter --  first-grader, not much artistic talent --   Yet!    	  １ヶ月後 娘の発表会に行きました １年生で 芸術的な才能はさほどですが ... 今のところです  
   And I'm bawling, I'm crying, like a little kid.    	   声を上げて泣きました 幼い子どものようでした  
 And it made all the sense in the world to me.    	  そこで はっきりと気付きました  
 I realized at that point, by connecting those two dots,  that the only thing that matters in my life  is being a great dad.    	  その時 二つの点がつながり 気が付いたのです 人生で大切なことは一つ それは 良き父であること  
 Above all, above all,  the only goal I have in life is to be a good dad.    	  何にもまして大切な 人生のたった一つの目標は  
 I was given the gift of a miracle,  of not dying that day.    	  良き父であることです あの日を生き延び  
 I was given another gift,  which was to be able to see into the future  and come back  and live differently.    	  奇跡を授かりました そして 未来に立ち会える という奇跡 戻ってきて 以前と違う 生き方ができる奇跡もです  
 I challenge you guys that are flying today,  imagine the same thing happens on your plane --  and please don't --  but imagine, and how would you change?    	  今日 飛行機に乗る方は 同じことが起こったらと想像してください 起こらないで欲しいですが― どう変わりますか？  
 What would you get done  that you're waiting to get done because you think you'll be here forever?    	  長い人生 そのうちやるつもりだったことの どれをやりますか？  
 How would you change your relationships  and the negative energy in them?    	  人付き合いをどう変えますか？ 負のエネルギーをどう変えますか？  
 And more than anything, are you being the best parent you can?    	  何より 親としてベストを尽くしていますか？  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 I have had the distinct blessing in my life  to have worked on a bunch of amazing projects.    	  今までとても恵まれ多くのスゴイ プロジェクトに関わってきました  
 But the coolest I ever worked on  was around this guy.    	  でも一番良かったのは この人に関するものです  
 This guy's name is TEMPT.    	  この人はTEMPTといって  
 TEMPT was one of the foremost graffiti artists in the 80s.    	  80年代を代表するグラフィティ・アーティストでした  
 And he came up home from a run one day  and said, "Dad, my legs are tingling."    	  でもある日 活動後に帰宅し 「足がしびれてる」と言いました  
 And that was the onset of ALS.    	  これがALSの発症でした  
 So TEMPT is now completely paralyzed.    	  今では全身麻痺していて  
 He only has use of his eyes.    	  目だけしか動かせません  
 I was exposed to him.    	  彼のことは聞いていました  
 I have a company that does design and animation,  so obviously graffiti is definitely an intricate part  of what we admire and respect in the art world.    	  デザインやアニメーションの会社をしているので 落書きは当然アートの世界で 賞賛し尊敬する対象の1つでした  
 And so we decided that we were going to sponsor  Tony, TEMPT, and his cause.    	  そこでトニーつまりTEMPT そして彼の夢を 支援することに決めたのです  
 So I went and met with his brother and father  and said, "We're going to give you this money.    	  お兄さんとお父さんに会い 「支援金を差し上げますが  
 What are you going to do with it?"    	  何に使いますか？」と尋ねました  
 And his brother said, "I just want to be able to talk to Tony again.    	  するとお兄さんが「トニーと話せるようになれば」  
 I just want to be able to communicate with him  and him to be able to communicate with me."    	  「彼とコミュニケーションできれば それだけで」と言うので  
 And I said, "Wait a second, isn't that -- I've seen Stephen Hawking --  don't all paralyzed people have the ability to communicate  via these devices?"    	  「スティーヴン・ホーキングみたいに 全身麻痺の人は装置を使ってコミュニケーションが できるでしょう？」と言うと  
 And he said, "No, unless you're in the upper echelon and you've got really amazing insurance,  you can't actually do that.    	  「お金かスゴイ保険がある人でない限り それは事実上無理です  
 These devices aren't accessible to people."    	  一般人には手が届きません」  
 And I said, "Well, how do you actually communicate?"    	  と言われました ではどうしているのか  
 Has everyone seen the movie "The Diving Bell and the Butterfly?"    	  映画「潜水服は蝶の夢を見る」を観ましたか？  
 That's how they communicate --  so run their finger along.    	  あのようにコミュニケーションします 文字を指して見せるんです  
 I said, "That's archaic. How can that be?"    	  「そんな原始的なことをしてるなんて」と思いました  
 So I showed up with the desire to just write a check,  and instead, I wrote a check  that I had no freaking idea how I was going to cash.    	  普通に小切手を書くだけのつもりで行ったのに 実際に渡したのは 自分でも 換金の仕方が分からない小切手でした  
 I committed to his brother and his father right then and there --  I'm like, "All right, here's the deal:  Tony's going to speak, we're going to get him a machine,  and we're going to figure out a way for him to do his art again.    	  その場で二人に約束したのです 「こうしましょう トニーが話せるように装置を入手して もう一度アートができる方法を考えます  
 Because it's a travesty that someone who still has all of that in him  isn't able to communicate it."    	  こんな才能がある人がコミュニケーションできないなんて そんなの間違ってます」と  
 So I spoke at a conference a couple months after that.    	  数ヵ月後にカンファレンスで  
 I met these guys called GRL,  Graffiti Research Lab,  and they have a technology  that allows them to project a light onto any surface  and then, with a laser pointer, draw on it,  and it just registers the negative space.    	  グラフィティ・リサーチ・ラボ 通称GRLに会いました 彼らが持つ技術を使うと どのような表面にも光を投影し レーザーポインターで 絵を描くことができます  
 So they go around and do art installations like this.    	  このようなアートをあちこちで見せています  
 All the things that go up there, they said there's a life cycle.    	  壁に描かれるものにはライフサイクルがあるそうで  
 First it starts with the sexual organs,  then it starts with cuss words,  then it was Bush slanders  and then people actually got to art.    	  一番初めは性器から始まり 次は罵倒の言葉 そしてブッシュの中傷になり 実際のアートにたどり着きます  
 But there was always a life cycle to their presentations.    	  表現には常にライフサイクルがあるそうです  
 So I went home and was having dinner with my wife  and was telling her about this,  and we were like, "Well wait a second. If we know that this technology exists  where you can use your eyes to control things,  why don't we figure out a way for TEMPT to control a laser  and he could do graf again? Well that would be awesome."    	  帰宅して妻と夕食を食べながら このことを話していてひらめきました 「目で操作が出来る技術があることは 分かっているんだから TEMPTがレーザーを操作できる方法を考えて 落書きができるようにすればスゴイのでは」と  
 So that started the journey.    	  そこでこの試みを始めました  
 And about two years later, about a year later,  after a bunch of organization  and a bunch of moving things around,  we'd accomplished a couple things.    	  そして１年後くらいに いろいろな調整と 多くの試行錯誤のあと いくつかのことを達成しました  
 One, we battered down the doors of the insurance companies,  and we actually got TEMPT a machine  that let him communicate -- a Stephen Hawking machine.    	  １つは保険会社を説き伏せ TEMPTがコミュニケーションできるよう スティーヴン・ホーキング装置を実際に入手したことです  
   Which was awesome.    	  （拍手） 最高でした  
 And he's seriously one of the funniest -- I call him Yoda,  because you talk to the guy, you get an email from him,  and you're like, "I'm not worthy. This guy's so amazing."    	  トニーはすごく面白い人です 話したりメールをすると スゴイ人だと思うのでヨーダと呼んでいます  
 The other thing we did  is we flew seven programmers from all over the world --  literally every corner of the world --  into our house.    	  もう１つ僕たちがしたのは ７人のプログラマーを まさに世界の端々から 僕の家に集結させることでした  
 My wife and kids and I moved to our back garage,  and these hackers and programmers  and conspiracy theorists and anarchists took over our house.    	  僕は妻子と裏のガレージに引越して これらのハッカーやプログラマー 陰謀説派やアナーキストが家を占領しました  
 A lot of our friends thought we were absolutely stupid to do that  and that we were going to come back  and all the pictures on the wall would be removed and graf on the walls.    	  大勢の友人にバカなことをしていると言われました 帰宅したら壁の写真がなく 代わりに落書きされてるんじゃないかと  
 But for over two weeks,  we programmed,  we went to the Venice boardwalk,  my kids got involved,  my dog got involved,  and we created this.    	  でも２週間の間に プログラムを書き ベニスの遊歩道に行き 僕の子供も参加して 僕の犬も参加して これを作り上げました  
 This is called the EyeWriter,  and you can see the description.    	  EyeWriterといいます 説明はご覧の通りです  
 This is a cheap pair of sunglasses  that we bought at the Venice Beach boardwalk,  some copper wire  and some stuff from Home Depot and Radio Shack.    	  ベニスビーチの遊歩道で買った 安物のサングラスと銅線と Home Depotや Radio Shackで買える部品です  
 We took a PS3 camera, hacked it open,  mounted it to an LED light,  and now there's a device that is free --  you build this yourself, we publish the code for free,  you download the software for free.    	  PS3カメラを解体して LEDライトに取り付けました これでお金のかからない装置ができました 自分で作れ コードも無料で入手できます ソフトウェアも無料です  
 And now we've created a device  that has absolutely no limitations.    	  こうして全く制限なしの 装置を作りました  
 There's no insurance company that can say "No."    	  保険会社も反対できず  
 There's no hospital that can say "No."    	  病院もダメと言えません  
 Anybody who's paralyzed now has access  to actually draw or communicate using only their eyes.    	  全身麻痺の人誰もが 目だけで絵を描いたりコミュニケーションできます  
   Thank you.    	  （拍手） ありがとう  
 Thank you guys very much. That was awesome.    	  みんなどうもありがとう 最高です  
 So at the end of the two weeks,  we went back to TEMPT's room.    	  それで２週間後 TEMPTの病室に戻りました  
 I love this picture, because this is someone else's room  and that's his room.    	  気に入っている写真です 隣の部屋と比べて彼の部屋では  
 So there's all this hustle and bustle going on for the big unveiling.    	  お披露目のため沢山の人があれこれしています  
 And after over a year of planning,  two weeks of programming,  carb-fest and all-night sessions,  Tony drew again for the first time in seven years.    	  そして１年以上の計画と ２週間のプログラミング さらに 大食いと徹夜仕事を経て トニーは７年ぶりに絵を描きました  
 And this is an amazing picture,  because this is his life support system,  and he's looking over his life support system.    	  これは感動的な写真です 生命維持装置越しに トニーが向こうを見ているからです  
 We kicked his bed so that he could see out.    	  外が見えるようベッドを起こし  
 on a wall out in the parking lot outside of his hospital.    	  病院の外の駐車場にある  
 And he drew again for the first time,  in front of his family and friends --  and you can only imagine  what the feeling in the parking lot was.    	  壁に向けて投射機を設置しました そしてトニーは家族と友人の前で 発病後初めての落書きをしました 駐車場での感動を  
 The funny thing was, we had to break into the parking lot too,  so we totally felt like we were legit in the whole graf scene too.    	  想像してみてください 愉快だったのは 駐車場に侵入しなくてはならず 全く本格的な落書きだったことです  
   So at the end of this, he sent us an email,  and this is what the email said:  "That was the first time I've drawn anything for seven years.    	   このあとトニーは僕たちにメールをくれました こう書いてありました 「何かを描いたのは７年ぶりだった　まるで今まで  
 I feel like I had been held underwater,  and someone finally reached down  and pulled my head up so I could breathe."    	  水の中に閉じ込められていたのが とうとう助けられ 水上に出て 呼吸が出来るようになったみたいだ」  
 Isn't that awesome?    	  最高じゃない？  
   So that's kind of our battle cry.    	  （拍手） こうしたことが僕らを奮い立たせ  
 That's what keeps us going and keeps us developing.    	  開発を続けさせていくのです  
 And we've got such a long way to go with this.    	  まだ沢山すべきことがあります  
 This is an amazing device,  but it's the equivalent of an Etch A Sketch.    	  これはスゴイ装置ですが お絵かきおもちゃのレベルです  
 And someone who has that kind of artistic potential deserves so much more.    	  このようなアートの才能がある人には足りません  
 So we're in the process of trying to figure out  how to make it better, faster, stronger.    	  そこで現在これを改良し より速く丈夫にしようとしています  
 Since that time, we've had all kinds of acknowledgment.    	  その後あちこちで認められ  
 We've won a bunch of awards.    	  沢山の賞も獲得しました  
 Remember, it's free; none of us are making any money on this thing.    	  無料提供で収入はなく  
 It's all coming out of our own pockets.    	  資金はすべて自己負担なので  
 So the awards were like, "Oh, this is fantastic."    	  賞は「スゴイじゃん」という感じでした  
 Armstrong Twittered about us,  and then in December, Time magazine honored us  as one of the top 50 inventions of 2010, which was really cool.    	  アームストロングがツイートしてくれて 12月にはタイム誌が2010年の 優れた発明品50の１つとして評価してくれて最高でした  
   The coolest thing about this --  and this is what's completing the whole circle --  is that in April of this year,  at the Geffen MOCA in downtown Los Angeles,  there's going to be an exhibition called "Art of the Streets."    	  （拍手） 一番うれしいのは― これで話が完結するのですが 今年の4月に ロスのダウンタウンにある現代美術館で 「ストリートアート」の展示が行われ  
 And "Art of the Streets" is going to have  pretty much the bad-asses of the street art scene --  Banksy, Shepard Fairey, KAWS --  all of these guys will be there.    	  ストリートアートの スゴイ奴らが参加して Banksyや Shepard FaireyそしてCAWsなど 一同揃うのですが  
 TEMPT's going to be in the show,  which is pretty awesome.    	  TEMPTも出るということです もう最高です  
   So basically this is my point:  If you see something that's not possible,  make it possible.    	  （拍手） 基本的に僕の言いたいことは 不可能なことがあったら 可能にしろということです  
 Everything in this room wasn't possible --  this stage, this computer, this mic, the EyeWriter --  wasn't possible at one point.    	  この会場にあるものすべて不可能でした ステージもこのコンピュータもマイクもEyeWriterも かつては 不可能でした  
 Make it possible, everyone in this room.    	  皆さん 不可能を可能にしてください  
 I'm not a programmer,  never done anything with ocular recognition technology,  but I just recognized something and associated myself with amazing people  so that we could make something happen.    	  僕はプログラマーではなく 視線認識技術の経験もありませんでした ひらめきをもとに有能な人たちと手を組んで 何か達成しようとしただけです  
 And this is the question I want everyone to ask yourself  every single day  when you come up with something you feel that needs to be done:  if not now, then when? And if not me, then who?    	  皆さんには 何かやるべきだと 感じることがあったら この質問を 毎日自分に問いかけて欲しいのです 「今でなければいつ？自分でなければ誰がやるんだ？」と  
 Thank you guys.    	  みんなありがとう  
 I have spent the past few years  putting myself into situations  that are usually very difficult  and at the same time somewhat dangerous.    	  ここ数年の間 非常に困難なうえ いくらか危険な状況に 身をおいてきました  
 I went to prison --  difficult.    	  刑務所― 困難  
 I worked in a coal mine --  dangerous.    	  炭鉱労働― 危険  
 I filmed in war zones --  difficult and dangerous.    	  戦場での撮影― 困難かつ危険  
 And I spent 30 days eating nothing but this --  fun in the beginning,  little difficult in the middle, very dangerous in the end.    	  そしてこればかり30日間食べたときは 最初は楽しかったのが 途中で困難に 最後には非常に危険となりました  
 In fact, most of my career,  I've been immersing myself  into seemingly horrible situations  for the whole goal of trying  to examine societal issues  that hopefully break them down in a way  that make them entertaining and accessible to an audience.    	  実際キャリアのほとんどを 見たところヒドイ状況に 自ら首を突っ込んできました これもすべて関心を引き 興味深く見せるやり方で 社会問題を考察するためです 分かりやすくして 観客が 手軽に受け入れ楽しめればと思っています  
 So when I knew I was coming here  to do a TED Talk that was going to look at the world of branding and sponsorship,  I knew I would want to do something a little different.    	  そこでTEDでブランドや スポンサーシップについて話すとなったとき 少し違うことをしたいと思いました  
 So as some of you may or may not have heard,  a couple weeks ago, I took out an ad on eBay.    	  知っている人もいるかもしれませんが 数週間前にEbayで広告を出し  
 I sent out some Facebook messages,  some Twitter messages,  and I gave people the opportunity to buy the naming rights  to my 2011 TED Talk.    	  Facebookのメッセージを発信し Twitterでつぶやいて この2011年TEDトークの 命名権を競売にかけました  
   That's right, some lucky individual, corporation,  for-profit or non-profit,  was going to get the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity --  because I'm sure Chris Anderson will never let it happen again --    to buy the naming rights  to the talk you're watching right now,  that at the time didn't have a title, didn't really have a lot of content  and didn't really give much hint  as to what the subject matter would actually be.    	   そうです　個人・企業・営利・非営利 幸運な誰かが 一生一度のチャンスを掴み― クリスが二度と許さないと思うので―  貴方が今観ているトークの 命名権を買うのです その時点では題名もなく 内容もほとんどなく 実際何について話すのか よく分からない状態のトークです  
 So what you were getting was this:  Your name here presents:  My TED Talk that you have no idea what the subject is  and, depending on the content, could ultimately blow up in your face,  especially if I make you or your company look stupid for doing it.    	  つまり購入するのは （貴方の名前）提供： 主題が何か見当もつかず 内容によっては顔に泥を塗り 特に 賛同したことで恥をかくかもしれない僕のTEDトーク  
 But that being said,  it's a very good media opportunity.    	  とは言え 絶好の宣伝チャンス  
   You know how many people watch these TED Talks?    	   一体何人がTEDトークを見てると思います？  
 It's a lot.    	  かなりの人です  
 That's just a working title, by the way.    	  ちなみにこれはただの仮題名です  
   So even with that caveat,  I knew that someone would buy the naming rights.    	   だから懸念があっても 誰かが権利を 買うと分かっていました  
 Now if you'd have asked me that a year ago,  I wouldn't have been able to tell you that with any certainty.    	  １年前に同じ事を聞かれたら 自信がなかったでしょう  
 But in the new project that I'm working on, my new film,  we examine the world of marketing, advertising.    	  でも今取り組んでいる映画で マーケティングや広告業界を検証しています  
 And as I said earlier,  I put myself in some pretty horrible situations over the years,  but nothing could prepare me, nothing could ready me,  for anything as difficult  or as dangerous  as going into the rooms with these guys.    	  前に言ったように ここ数年 自分を悲惨な状況に置いてきていますが 今までの経験など この人たちとの困難で危険な 交渉には 全く役に立ちませんでした  
   You see, I had this idea for a movie.    	   僕には映画のアイデアがありました  
  Morgan Spurlock: What I want to do is make a film  all about product placement, marketing and advertising,  where the entire film is funded  by product placement, marketing and advertising.    	  M・スパーロック：マーケティングと プロダクトプレイスメントと広告に関する映画を マーケティングとプロダクト・プレイスメントと 広告だけの資金で作りたいんです  
 So the movie will be called "The Greatest Movie Ever Sold."    	  映画の題名は「The Greatest Movie Ever Sold」  
 So what happens in "The Greatest Movie Ever Sold,"  is that everything from top to bottom, from start to finish,  is branded from beginning to end --  from the above-the-title sponsor that you'll see in the movie,  which is brand X.    	  この「究極の映画企画」には 上から下まで 最初から最後まで ブランド名が入っていて 映画のアバンタイトルの提供も なんらかのブランドで  
 Now this brand, the Qualcomm Stadium,  the Staples Center ...    	  例えばクアルコム・スタジアムや ステイプルズ・センターのブランドは  
 these people will be married to the film in perpetuity -- forever.    	  ずっと永遠に映画に残るわけです  
 And so the film explores this whole idea --   It's what?  In perpetuity, forever?    	  映画でこの概念の検討を― （M・カッサン：重複） は？ （MK：重複） 「ずっと永遠に」が？  
 I'm a redundant person.   That was more for emphasis.    	  しつこい人間なんで  あれは強調するつもりで  
 It was, "In perpetuity. Forever."    	  「ずっと残る　永遠に」でした  
 But not only are we going to have the brand X title sponsor,  but we're going to make sure we sell out every category we can in the film.    	  タイトルに提供をつけるだけでなく 映画に出てくるもの全て売ります  
 So maybe we sell a shoe and it becomes the greatest shoe you ever wore ...    	  例えば靴に提供をつけて「究極の靴」にしたり  
 the greatest car you ever drove from "The Greatest Movie Ever Sold,"  the greatest drink you've ever had, courtesy of "The Greatest Movie Ever Sold."    	  「究極の映画」に出てくる「究極の車」 「究極の映画」提供の「究極のドリンク」  
 Xavier Kochhar: So the idea is,  beyond just showing that brands are a part of your life,  but actually get them to finance the film?   MS: And actually we show the whole process of how does it work.    	  X・コーチャー：つまりブランドは 生活の一部だと伝えるだけでなく 映画自体も提供してると？  MS：実際にそのしくみも見せます  
 The goal of this whole film is transparency.    	  この映画のテーマは透明性です  
 You're going to see the whole thing take place in this movie.    	  全過程を映画の中で見るわけです  
 So that's the whole concept,  the whole film, start to finish.    	  それが最初から最後までの 映画全体の構想です  
 And I would love for CEG to help make it happen.    	  是非CEGに実現して頂きたいです  
 Robert Friedman: You know it's funny,  because when I first hear it,  it is the ultimate respect  for an audience. Guy: I don't know how receptive  people are going to be to it, though.    	  R・フリードマン：面白いのは ぱっと聞いた感じでは これは観客に対する 最高の敬意だってことだ 男：大衆が受け入れるかどうか 分かりませんがね  
 XK: Do you have a perspective --  I don't want to use "angle" because that has a negative connotation --  but do you know how this is going to play out?   David Cohn: How much money does it take to do this?    	  XK：これに対する見解は― 「切り口」は聞こえが悪いが― 展開の見当はついてるの？  D・コーン：いくらかかる？  
 MS: 1.5 million.   John Kamen: I think that you're going to have a hard time meeting with them,  but I think it's certainly worth pursuing  XK: Who knows, maybe by the time your film comes out,  we look like a bunch of blithering idiots.    	  MS：150万ドル （DC：オッケー） J・カメン：会ってもらうのが大変だが いくつか目立つブランドに あたってみる価値はあると思うね XK：映画が出る頃に 馬鹿を見るのはこちらかも  
 MS: What do you think the response is going to be?    	  MS：どんな返答がもらえると思います？  
 Stuart Ruderfer: The responses mostly will be "no."    	  S・ルダファー：大抵は「ダメ」だな  
 MS: But is it a tough sell because of the film  or a tough sell because of me?    	  MS：映画がマズいから？ それとも僕だというのがマズい？  
 JK: Both.    	  JK：両方  
 MS: ... Meaning not so optimistic.    	  MS：…楽観的でないということですか  
 So, sir, can you help me? I need help.    	  では支援いただけますか？  
 MK: I can help you.    	  MK：支援できるよ  
 MS: Okay.   Awesome.    	  MS：オッケー  素晴らしい  
 MK: We've gotta figure out which brands.    	  MK：どのブランドがいいか検討する  
 MS: Yeah.   When you look at the people you deal with ..    	  MS：ええ （MK：それが問題だな） 取引のある相手を見ると―  
 MK: We've got some places we can go.   Turn the camera off.    	  MK：心当たりはいくつかある （MS:オッケー） カメラ止めて  
 MS: I thought "Turn the camera off"  meant, "Let's have an off-the-record conversation."    	  MS：「カメラ止めて」は 「オフレコの話を」という意味だと  
 Turns out it really means,  "We want nothing to do with your movie."    	  思ったのですが 実は 「君の映画には関わりたくないね」でした  
 MS: And just like that, one by one,  all of these companies suddenly disappeared.    	  MS:こうして気付いたときには1つずつ これらの会社の全部が消えていました  
 None of them wanted anything to do with this movie.    	  誰も関わりたくなかったのです  
 I was amazed.    	  驚きでした  
 They wanted absolutely nothing to do with this project.    	  全く参加したくなかったのです  
 And I was blown away, because I thought the whole concept, the idea of advertising,  was to get your product out in front of as many people as possible,  to get as many people to see it as possible.    	  広告とはできる限り何度も 商品を出して多くの人に見てもらうことだと 思っていたのでびっくりでした  
 Especially in today's world,  this intersection of new media and old media  and the fractured media landscape,  isn't the idea to get  that new buzz-worthy delivery vehicle  that's going to get that message to the masses?    	  特に最近は 新旧メディアの分岐点にいて 媒体も雑然としています 大衆にメッセージを伝える 評判に値する新しい情報配信媒体は 願ってもないのでは？  
 No, that's what I thought.    	  いや 僕はそう思ったんですが  
 But the problem was, you see,  my idea had one fatal flaw,  and that flaw was this.    	  問題は 僕のアイデアには１つこのような 致命的欠陥があったということでした  
 Actually no, that was not the flaw whatsoever.    	  いや これは全く欠陥でないです  
 That wouldn't have been a problem at all.    	  これは全然問題じゃないです  
 This would have been fine.    	  これはよかったんですが  
 But what this image represents was the problem.    	  この画像が意味するものが問題でした  
 See, when you do a Google image search for transparency,  this is ---      This is one of the first images that comes up.    	  Googleで「透明性」の画像検索をすると これが―  （拍手） 上の方に出てくるんです  
 So I like the way you roll, Sergey Brin. No.    	  やるじゃんサーゲイ・ブリン　いやそうじゃなく  
   This is was the problem: transparency --  free from pretense or deceit;  easily detected or seen through;  readily understood;  characterized by visibility or accessibility of information,  especially concerning business practices --  that last line being probably the biggest problem.    	   問題はこれでした　透明性とは― 見せかけやごまかしがない 簡単に見抜いたり見通せる 容易に理解できる 特にビジネスの実践に関しては 情報の可視化や アクセスのしやすさに特徴がある この最後の文がたぶん一番の問題です  
 You see, we hear a lot about transparency these days.    	  透明性については最近よく聞きます  
 Our politicians say it, our president says it,  even our CEO's say it.    	  政治家や大統領も言ってます CEO達さえ言っています  
 But suddenly when it comes down to becoming a reality,  something suddenly changes.    	  でも実践するとなると 何か突然変わります  
 But why? Well, transparency is scary --    like that odd, still-screaming bear.    	  なぜか？まず透明性は恐ろしく―  この変な吠え叫ぶ熊の写真のよう  
   It's unpredictable --      like this odd country road.    	   予想がつかず―   この変な田舎道のよう  
 And it's also very risky.    	  そして非常にリスクが高い  
   What else is risky?    	   他にリスクが高いと言えば？  
 Eating an entire bowl of Cool Whip.    	  容器に入った生クリームを全部食べること  
   That's very risky.    	   これは非常にリスクが大きいです  
 Now when I started talking to companies  and telling them that we wanted to tell this story,  and they said, "No, we want you to tell a story.    	  企業と交渉し始めて このストーリーを伝えたいと言ったとき 「ストーリーを伝えるのは  
 We want you to tell a story,  but we just want to tell our story."    	  もちろんいいんだが 伝えるのは こちら側のストーリーを」と言われました  
 See, when I was a kid  and my father would catch me in some sort of a lie --  and there he is giving me the look he often gave me --  he would say, "Son, there's three sides to every story.    	  僕が子供の頃 ウソが父にばれると― こういう目でよく僕を見ていたんですが― 父は「どんなストーリーにも3つの側面があるもんだ  
 There's your story,  there's my story  and there's the real story."    	  お前の言い分 お父さんの言い分 そして真実だ」と言っていました  
 Now you see, with this film, we wanted to tell the real story.    	  この映画では真実のストーリーを伝えたかったのです  
 But with only one company, one agency willing to help me --  and that's only because I knew John Bond and Richard Kirshenbaum for years --  I realized that I would have to go on my own,  I'd have to cut out the middleman  and go to the companies myself with all of my team.    	  でも１社だけの支援では― しかもジョンとリチャードとは長い付き合いがあるからというだけで― 自分でやるしかないと悟りました 中間業者なしで自分と 自分のスタッフで直接企業にあたるしかないと  
 So what you suddenly started to realize --  or what I started to realize --  is that when you started having conversations with these companies,  the idea of understanding your brand is a universal problem.    	  そこで突然見えてくるのは― 僕が何に気付いたかと言うと― これらの企業と話してみると 自分のブランドに対する理解は共通の問題なんです  
  MS: I have friends who make great big, giant Hollywood films,  and I have friends who make little independent films like I make.    	  MS：ハリウッド映画を作る友人と 僕のように小さな自主映画を作る友人がいますが  
 And the friends of mine who make big, giant Hollywood movies  say the reason their films are so successful  is because of the brand partners that they have.    	  ハリウッド映画を作る友人は 映画が成功するのは ブランド提携者のおかげと言います  
 And then my friends who make small independent films  say, "Well, how are we supposed to compete  with these big, giant Hollywood movies?"    	  小さい自主映画を制作する友人は 「どうやってハリウッドの大作と 競争しろって？」と言います  
 And the movie is called  "The Greatest Movie Ever Sold."    	  そしてこの映画の題は 「The Greatest Movie Ever Sold」です  
 So how specifically will we see Ban in the film?    	  ではBanが具体的にどう映画に登場するのか？  
 Any time I'm ready to go, any time I open up my medicine cabinet,  you will see Ban deodorant.    	  僕が出かける前や薬棚を開けるたびに Banのデオドラントが出てきます  
 While anytime I do an interview with someone,  I can say, "Are you fresh enough for this interview?    	  誰かとインタビューするたびに僕は 「インタビューを前にしてさっぱりしてる？  
 Are you ready? You look a little nervous.    	  準備できた？緊張してる？  
 I want to help you calm down.    	  落ち着くには インタビュー前に  
 So maybe you should put some one before the interview."    	  これをつけるといいよ」と言い  
 So we'll offer one of these fabulous scents.    	  素敵な香りを１つ勧めるわけです  
 Whether it's a "Floral Fusion" or a "Paradise Winds,"  they'll have their chance.    	  「フローラルブーケ」でも 「パラダイスの風」でも  
 We will have them geared for both male or female --  solid, roll-on or stick, whatever it may be.    	  男性用も女性用も 固形やロールオン式 スティック型でも  
 That's the two-cent tour.    	  これが概要です  
 So now I can answer any of your questions  and give you the five-cent tour.    	  では質問があればお答えして もう少し詳しく話しますが  
 Karen Frank: We are a smaller brand.    	  K・フランク：私たちのブランドは大きくなく  
 Much like you talked about being a smaller movie,  we're very much a challenger brand.    	  お話にあった小さい映画と同じです 私たちはチャレンジャーです  
 So we don't have the budgets that other brands have.    	  競合他社のような予算はありません  
 So doing things like this -- you know,  remind people about Ban --  is kind of why were interested in it.    	  このようなやり方で Banを印象づけることに 関心があるのはそのためです-  
 MS: What are the words that you would use to describe Ban?    	  MS：Banを表す言葉は何ですか？  
 Ban is blank.    	  「Banは～である」  
 KF: That's a great question.    	  KF：いい質問ですね  
   Woman: Superior technology.    	   女性：優れた技術  
 MS: Technology's not the way you want to describe something  somebody's putting in their armpit.    	  MS：脇の下につけるものに 「技術」はないでしょう  
 Man: We talk about bold, fresh.    	  男性：「しっかり爽やか」です  
 I think "fresh" is a great word that really spins this category into the positive,  versus "fights odor and wetness."    	  「爽やか」は「臭いや汗を抑える」とは違って この手の商品を魅力的に見せます  
 It keeps you fresh.    	  いつも爽やか  
 How do we keep you fresher longer -- better freshness,  more freshness, three times fresher.    	  長時間爽やか　素晴らしい爽やかさ もっと爽やかに ３倍爽やか  
 Things like that that are more of that positive benefit.    	  このような前向きな面をもっと出す感じです  
 MS: And that's a multi-million dollar corporation.    	  MS：これが数百万ドルの企業です  
 What about me? What about a regular guy?    	  でも自分は？普通の人は？  
 I need to go talk to the man on the street,  the people who are like me, the regular Joes.    	  僕のような普通の 一般人に尋ねて  
 They need to tell me about my brand.    	  自分のブランドについて学ばなくては  
  MS: How would you guys describe your brand?    	  MS：自分のブランドをどう説明する？  
 Man: Um, my brand?    	  男性：うーん 自分のブランド？  
 I don't know.    	  分からないなあ  
 I like really nice clothes.    	  仕立てのいい服が好きだけど  
 Woman: 80's revival  meets skater-punk,  unless it's laundry day.    	  女性：80年代スタイルに スケボーパンクを足したもの 洗濯の日はダメだけど  
 MS: All right, what is brand Gerry?    	  MS：ジェリーのブランドは何？  
 Gerry: Unique.   Man: I guess what kind of genre, style I am  would be like dark glamor.    	  ジェリー：個性的　（MS：個性的） 男性：スタイルのジャンルで言ったら 「陰の魅惑」って感じ  
 I like a lot of black colors,  a lot of grays and stuff like that.    	  たくさんの黒に たくさんのグレー そんな感じが好き  
 But usually I have an accessory,  like sunglasses,  or I like crystal and things like that too.    	  でもアクセサリーも着けるけど サングラスとか クリスタルとかも好きだし  
 Woman: If Dan were a brand,  he might be a classic convertible  Mercedes Benz.    	  女性：ダンがブランドだとしたら クラシックなベンツの オープンカーかしら  
 Man 2: The brand that I am  is, I would call it casual fly.    	  男性２：僕のブランドは 「粋なカジュアル」と言う感じかな  
 Woman 2: Part hippie, part yogi,  part Brooklyn girl -- I don't know.    	  女性２：ヒッピーとヨガが混じった ブルックリンギャル―分かんない  
 Man 3: I'm the pet guy.    	  男性３：ペット業者  
 I sell pet toys all over the country, all over the world.    	  世界中でペットのおもちゃを売ってる  
 So I guess that's my brand.    	  だからこれが僕のブランドかな  
 In my warped little industry, that's my brand.    	  僕の偏った小さな業界での僕のブランド  
 Man 4: My brand is FedEx because I deliver the goods.    	  男性４：FedExが俺のブランド 期待を裏切らない  
 Man 5: Failed writer-alcoholic brand.    	  男性５：アル中の駄目作家  
 Is that something?    	  すごいだろ？  
 Lawyer: I'm a lawyer brand.    	  弁護士：私のブランドは弁護士  
 Tom: I'm Tom.    	  トム：俺 トム  
 MS: Well we can't all be brand Tom, but I do often find myself  at the intersection of dark glamor and casual fly.    	  MS：トムのブランドにはなれませんが 僕は 「陰の魅惑」と「粋なカジュアル」の中間が多いです  
   And what I realized is I needed an expert.    	   そして専門家が必要と分かりました  
 somebody who could really help me understand  what they call your "brand personality."    	  僕のことを理解して 僕が自分の「ブランドの人格」を 理解する手助けをしてくれる人です  
 And so I found a company called Olson Zaltman in Pittsburg.    	  ピッツバーグのOlson Zaltman社に行きました  
 They've helped companies like Nestle, Febreze, Hallmark  discover that brand personality.    	  ネスレやファブリーズやホールマークなどの企業の ブランド人格を定義してきています  
 If they could do it for them, surely they could do it for me.    	  これらの企業を助けられるなら僕のことも大丈夫なはず  
  Abigail: You brought your pictures, right?    	  アビゲール：写真ありますよね？  
 MS: I did. The very first picture  is a picture of my family.    	  MS:持ってきました 最初のは 僕の家族の写真です  
 A: So tell me a little bit how it relates to your thoughts and feelings about who you are.    	  A：自分に対する考えや感情にどう関係していますか？  
 MS: These are the people who shape the way I look at the world.    	  MS：僕の世界観に影響を与えました  
 A: Tell me about this world.    	  A：その「世界」とは？  
 MS: This world? I think your world is the world that you live in --  like people who are around you, your friends, your family,  the way you live your life, the job you do.    	  MS:この世界？自分が住んでる世界で 周囲の人や友達や家族がいて 生き方とかやってる仕事  
 All those things stemmed and started from one place,  and for me they stemmed and started with my family in West Virginia.    	  それら全てが１つの場所からきてる 僕の場合はウエスト・バージニアの家族からきてる  
 A: What's the next one you want to talk about?    	  A：次に話したいことは何ですか？  
 MS: The next one: This was the best day ever.    	  MS：次は「最高だった日」  
 A: How does this relate to your thoughts and feelings about who you are?    	  A：自分に対する考えや感情への関連は？  
 MS: It's like, who do I want to be?    	  MS：なりたい自分と言う感じ  
 I like things that are different.    	  変わったものが好きなんです  
 I like things that are weird. I like weird things.    	  変なもの　奇妙なものが好きです  
 A: Tell me about the "why" phase -- what does that do for us?    	  A：その「なぜ」の段階の説明を―意義は？  
 What is the machete? What pupa stage are you in now?    	  その「なた」とは？今はどの段階？  
 Why is it important to reboot? What does the red represent?    	  やり直しが重要な理由は？赤が象徴するのは何？  
 Tell me a little bit about that part.    	  その部分について話してみて  
 ... A little more about you that is not who you are.    	  …自分のこうでないという点は？  
 What are some other metamorphoses that you've had?    	  その他あった自身の変化は？  
 ... Doesn't have to be fear. What kind of roller coaster are you on?    	  …恐怖に限らず　直面している変化は？  
 MS: EEEEEE!  No, thank you.    	  MS：わあああ！　こちらこそ  
 A: Thanks for you patience.   A: Yeah.  All right.    	  A：最後までどうも　（MS：お疲れ様） A：はい　（MS：ありがとう）　では  
 MS: Yeah, I don't know what's going to come of this.    	  MS：一体どんな結果が出るのか  
 There was a whole lot of crazy going on in there.    	  わけの分からんことだらけでした  
 Lindsay Zaltman: The first thing we saw was this idea  that you had two distinct, but complementary  sides to your brand personality --  the Morgan Spurlock brand is a mindful/play brand.    	  L・ザルトマン：まず気付いたのは ２つの別々ながらも補完的な面が あなたのブランド人格にはあるということでした モーガン・スパーロックのブランドは「思慮と遊び心」  
 Those are juxtaposed very nicely together.    	  ２つが非常にうまく同居しています  
 And I think there's almost a paradox with those.    	  矛盾に近いものがあります  
 And I think some companies  will just focus on one of their strengths or the other  instead of focusing on both.    	  企業によっては 両方の強みを活かそうとしないで 片方だけに専念すると思います  
 Most companies tend to -- and it's human nature --  to avoid things that they're not sure of,  avoid fear, those elements,  and you really embrace those,  and you actually turn them into positives for you, and it's a neat thing to see.    	  ほとんどの企業は―人間は本質的にそうなのですが 自信がないものを避け 恐怖なども避けようとします でもあなたはしっかり受け入れている 実際にそれらを前向きな力にしていて興味深いです  
 What other brands are like that?    	  他のブランドで似ているのは？  
 The first on here is the classic, Apple.    	  まず定評のApple  
 And you can see here too, Target, Wii,  Mini from the Mini Coopers, and JetBlue.    	  TargetとWiiもそう そしてミニクーパーのMiniとJetBlue  
 Now there's playful brands and mindful brands,  those things that have come and gone,  but a playful, mindful brand is a pretty powerful thing.    	  遊び心のあるブランドや思慮深いブランドは ありますが長続きしません でも遊び心が溢れ思慮深いブランドは強いのです  
 MS: A playful, mindful brand. What is your brand?    	  MS：遊び心と思慮のブランド　あなたは？  
 If somebody asked you to describe your brand identity, your brand personality,  what would you be?    	  誰かに自分のブランド人格を述べてと言われたら あなたのブランドはどうですか？  
 Are you an up attribute? Are you something that gets the blood flowing?    	  外向的な人？ワクワクさせる人ですか？  
 Or are you more of a down attribute?    	  それとも内向的な人？  
 Are you something that's a little more calm, reserved, conservative?    	  どちらかと言うと冷静で控えめで保守的？  
 Up attributes are things like being playful,  being fresh like the Fresh Prince,  contemporary, adventurous,  edgy or daring like Errol Flynn,  nimble or agile, profane, domineering,  magical or mystical like Gandalf.    	  外向的な人は遊び心いっぱいで フレッシュ・プリンスのように勝手気まま 近代的で冒険好き 斬新でエロール・フリンのように大胆 器用 機敏 世俗的 高圧的 ガンダルフように不思議で超常的 それともあなたは内向的な人？ 思慮深く007のように洗練されてる？  
 Or are you more of a down attribute?    	  実績があって慣習的 母性的で保護的  
 Are you mindful, sophisticated like 007?    	  オプラのように親身になれる人？  
 Are you established, traditional, nurturing, protective,  empathetic like the Oprah?    	  信頼があり 動じない親しみのある人 無難で確実で献身的  
 Are you reliable, stable, familiar,  contemplative or wise  like the Dalai Lama or Yoda?    	  ダライラマやヨーダのように 熟考的で賢明？ この映画の制作過程で  
 Over the course of this film,  who were up and down companies  saying, "no," they didn't want any part of this project.    	  外向的かつ内向的である 500以上の企業が 「ダメ」と言い 参加を拒みました  
 They wanted nothing to do with this film, mainly because they would have no control,  they would have no control over the final product.    	  主な理由はコントロールできず最終的に 映画がどうなるか分からないからでした  
 But we did get 17 brand partners  who were willing to relinquish that control,  who wanted to be in business  with someone as mindful and as playful as myself  and who ultimately empowered us to tell stories  that normally we wouldn't be able to tell --  stories that an advertiser would normally never get behind.    	  でも17社が賛同しました コントロールを譲って 僕のような思慮と遊び心のある人間と 仕事したいと言ってくれたのです そして最終的には普通は 公開できないストーリーを見せる支援をしてくれました 普通なら広告会社が決して許さないストーリーです  
 They enabled us to tell the story about neuromarketing,  as we got into telling the story in this film  about how now they're using MRI's  to target the desire centers of your brain  for both commercials as well as movie marketing.    	  おかげで映画のストーリーを見せる中で ニューロマーケティングという MRIを使って脳の欲望中枢に働きかける コマーシャルや映画宣伝が 最近はあることを見せることができました  
 We went to San Paulo where they have banned outdoor advertising.    	  野外広告を禁止してしまったサンパウロにも行きました  
 In the entire city for the past five years,  there's no billboards, there's no posters, there's no flyers, nothing.    	  ５年前から街中どこにも ビルボード ポスター 広告が一切ありません  
   And we went to school districts  where now companies are making their way  into cash-strapped schools all across America.    	  （拍手） 学区にも行きました アメリカ中の財政難の学校に 企業たちは進出しています  
 What's incredible for me is the projects that I've gotten the most feedback out of,  or I've had the most success in,  are ones where I've interacted with things directly.    	  驚くのは今までのプロジェクトで反響が多かったり 成功したものは 自分が直接 やり取りしたものだったことですが  
 And that's what these brands did.    	  これらのブランドがしたのもそうです  
 They cut out the middleman, they cut out their agencies  and said, "Maybe these agencies  don't have my best interest in mind.    	  自分たちの利益を 最優先にしていないかもと考え 中間業者や代理店と手を切りました  
 I'm going to deal directly with the artist.    	  アーティストと直接一緒に  
 I'm going to work with him to create something different,  something that's going to get people thinking,  that's going to challenge the way we look at the world."    	  何か今までと違う 人に考えさせ 世の中の見方に疑問を 投げかけるものを作ろうとしました  
 And how has that been for them? Has it been successful?    	  その結果は？この時点ではどうか？  
 Well, since the film premiered at the Sundance Film Festival, let's take a look.    	  サンダンス映画祭での公開後どうか見てみましょう  
 According to Burrelles, the movie premiered in January,  and since then -- and this isn't even the whole thing --  we've had 900 million media impressions for this film.    	  Burrellesによると１月に封切して以来― この数字は全て含んでいませんが― この映画の媒体インプレッション数は90億でした  
 That's literally covering just like a two and a half-week period.    	  たったの２週間半の間でです  
 That's only online -- no print, no TV.    	  ネットだけで印刷物やテレビはなし  
 The film hasn't even been distributed yet.    	  まだ映画は配給さえされていません  
 It's not even online. It's not even streaming.    	  ネットでもストリームしていません  
 It's not even been out into other foreign countries yet.    	  海外にもリリースされていません  
 So ultimately,  this film has already started to gain a lot of momentum.    	  結果としては この映画はすでに評判を集めてきているわけです  
 And not bad for a project that almost every ad agency we talked to  advised their clients not to take part.    	  交渉した広告会社のほとんどがクライアントに 参加を見送るよう勧めたのにです  
 What I always believe  is that if you take chances, if you take risks,  that in those risks will come opportunity.    	  僕がいつも思っているのは リスクを負ってチャンスを活かすと そこから好機が到来するということです  
 I believe that when you push people away from that,  you're pushing them more towards failure.    	  人をリスクから引き離すのは 失敗に近づけることだと思います  
 I believe that when you train your employees to be risk averse,  then you're preparing your whole company  to be reward challenged.    	  リスクを回避する社員教育をするのは 会社全体を働きがいのない 場所にしてしまうことだと思います  
 I feel like that what has to happen moving forward  is we need to encourage people to take risks.    	  これからはリスクを冒せるよう 人々を勇気づけていく必要があると思います  
 We need to encourage people to not be afraid  of opportunities that may scare them.    	  危険そうな条件でも 恐れないよう応援すべきです  
 Ultimately, moving forward,  I think we have to embrace fear.    	  結局これからは 恐れを 受け入れなくてはならないのです  
 We've got to put that bear in a cage.    	  あの熊を檻に入れるんです  
   Embrace fear. Embrace risk.    	   恐れを受け入れる　リスクを受け入れる  
 One big spoonful at a time, we have to embrace risk.    	  少しずつリスクを取り入れていかなくてはダメです  
 And ultimately, we have to embrace transparency. Today, more than ever,  a little honesty is going to go a long way.    	  そして最終的には透明性にも取り組まなくてはなりません これまでにも増して 少しの誠実さが 大きな効果をもたらす時代です  
 And that being said, through honesty and transparency,  my entire talk, "Embrace Transparency,"  has been brought to you  by my good friends at EMC,  who for $7,100  bought the naming rights on eBay.    	  というわけで 誠実さと透明性にのっとって 僕のトーク「透明性を受け入れる」は Ebayで命名権に 7,100ドル支払ってくれた 素晴らしいEMCの皆さんの提供で お届けいたしました  
   EMC: Turning big data  into big opportunity  for organizations all over the world.    	  （拍手） EMC：世界中の組織の 大量な情報を 大きなチャンスに転換  
 EMC presents: "Embrace Transparency."    	  EMC提供：「透明性を受け入れる」  
 Thank you very much, guys.    	  みなさんありがとう  
   June Cohen: So, Morgan,  in the name of transparency,  what exactly happened to that $7,100?    	  （拍手） J・コーヘン：モーガン それで 透明性ってことで聞くけど あの7,100ドルはどうなったの？  
 MS: That is a fantastic question.    	  MS：素晴らしい質問です  
 I have in my pocket a check  made out to the parent organization to the TED organization,  the Sapling Foundation --  a check for $7,100  to be applied toward my attendance for next year's TED.    	  ポケットに小切手を入れて来ました TEDの母体である Sapling Foundation宛てに書いた 7,100ドルの小切手です 僕の来年のTED参加費に充ててください  
 The idea behind the Stuxnet computer worm  is actually quite simple.    	  Stuxnet コンピュータ・ワームの背後にあるアイデアは、 実はかなり簡単です。  
 We don't want Iran to get the bomb.    	  我々としては、イランが爆弾を手に入れてほしくありません。  
 Their major asset for developing nuclear weapons  is the Natanz uranium enrichment facility.    	  核兵器を開発するためのイランの重要な資産は、 Natanz ウラン濃縮施設です。  
 The gray boxes that you see,  these are real-time control systems.    	  ご覧の灰色のボックス、 これらはリアルタイム制御システムです。  
 Now if we manage to compromise these systems  that control drive speeds and valves,  we can actually cause a lot of problems  with the centrifuge.    	  もし、何とかしてこれらのシステム、 駆動スピードやバルブを制御するシステムを脅かすと、 実際に遠心分離機に多くの問題を 引き起こすことができます。  
 The gray boxes don't run Windows software;  they are a completely different technology.    	  この灰色のボックスは、 Windows ソフトを実行しません； まったく異なる技術です。  
 But if we manage  to place a good Windows virus  on a notebook  that is used by a maintenance engineer  to configure this gray box,  then we are in business.    	  しかし、もし何とかして 巧妙な Windows ウィルスを、 ノートブックに、 保守エンジニアが使用するノートブックに仕組み、 この灰色のボックスを構成すると、 うまく行きます。  
 And this is the plot behind Stuxnet.    	  これが Stuxnet の背後にある筋立てです。  
 So we start with a Windows dropper.    	  それで、 Windows ドロッパーから始めます。  
 The payload goes onto the gray box,  damages the centrifuge,  and the Iranian nuclear program is delayed --  mission accomplished.    	  ペイロードが灰色のボックスに行き、 遠心分離機にダメージを与え、 イランの核計画が遅れます-- 任務完遂。  
 That's easy, huh?    	  簡単、でしょ？  
 I want to tell you how we found that out.    	  我々がどのように解明したかをお話ししましょう。  
 When we started our research on Stuxnet six months ago,  it was completely unknown what the purpose of this thing was.    	  六ヶ月前に Stuxnet に関する調査を開始したとき、 こいつの目的が何なのかまったく分かりませんでした。  
 The only thing that was known  is it's very, very complex on the Windows part, the dropper part,  used multiple zero-day vulnerabilities.    	  唯一分かっていたことは、 ものすごく複雑な、 Windows 側、ドロッパー側で 使われた複数のゼロ・デイ脆弱性です。  
 And it seemed to want to do something  with these gray boxes, these real-time control systems.    	  何かをしたいようでした、 これら灰色のボックス、これらリアルタイム制御システムについて。  
 So that got our attention,  and we started a lab project  where we infected our environment with Stuxnet  and checked this thing out.    	  そのため、我々の注意を引きました、 研究室のプロジェクトを開始し、 そこで我々の環境を Stuxnet で感染させ、 こいつを検査しました。  
 And then some very funny things happened.    	  すると、まさに可笑しなことが起こりました。  
 Stuxnet behaved like a lab rat  that didn't like our cheese --  sniffed, but didn't want to eat.    	  Stuxnet は研究用のラットのように振る舞い、 我々のチーズを好まず、 においを嗅ぎましたが、食べたがりませんでした。  
 Didn't make sense to me.    	  私には意味がわかりませんでした。  
 And after we experimented with different flavors of cheese,  I realized, well, this is a directed attack.    	  風味の異なるチーズで実験しました後、 分かりました、これは、指示された攻撃だと。  
 It's completely directed.    	  完全に指示されていました。  
 The dropper is prowling actively  on the gray box  if a specific configuration is found,  and even if the actual program code that it's trying to infect  is actually running on that target.    	  ドロッパーは灰色のボックスで、 活発に徘徊しました、 特有の設定構成が見つかれば、 たとえ、感染しようとする実際のプログラムが、 そのターゲット上で実際に稼働していても。  
 And if not, Stuxnet does nothing.    	  そうでなければ、 Stuxnet は何もしません。  
 So that really got my attention,  and we started to work on this  nearly around the clock,  because I thought, "Well, we don't know what the target is.    	  そのため、まさに私の注意を引きました。 我々はこれに取りかかり始めました、 ほとんど２４時間ぶっ通しで。 というのは、そのターゲットが何なのかが分からないので、  
 It could be, let's say for example,  a U.S. power plant,  or a chemical plant in Germany.    	  可能性としては、たとえば、 アメリカの発電所や、 ドイツの化学工場があります。  
 So we better find out what the target is soon."    	  そのため、ターゲットが何かをすぐに見つけ出した方がいいでしょう。  
 So we extracted and decompiled  the attack code,  and we discovered that it's structured in two digital bombs --  a smaller one and a bigger one.    	  それで、攻撃コードを 抽出し、逆コンパイルすると、 二つのデジタル爆弾として構成されていることを発見しました-- 小さいやつと、大きいやつです。  
 And we also saw that they are very professionally engineered  by people who obviously had all insider information.    	  また、非常に専門技術的に巧まれていることが分かりました。 明らかに内部情報を有する連中によって。  
 They knew all the bits and bites  that they had to attack.    	  彼らはこまごました事柄すべてを知っていました。 攻撃対象について。  
 They probably even know the shoe size of the operator.    	  たぶん、オペレータの靴のサイズさえ知っています。  
 So they know everything.    	  彼らはすべてを知っています。  
 And if you have heard that the dropper of Stuxnet  is complex and high-tech,  let me tell you this:  the payload is rocket science.    	  もし、Stuxnet のドロッパーが複雑でハイテクであると 聞いたことがあるとしたら、 教えましょう、 このペイロードは、極めて高度です。  
 It's way above everything  that we have ever seen before.    	  我々がかつて見たことのあるもの すべてを超えています。  
 Here you see a sample of this actual attack code.    	  ここに、実際の攻撃コードのサンプルをお見せします。  
 We are talking about --  around about 15,000 lines of code.    	  ここで話をしているのは-- およそ約15,000行のコードです。  
 Looks pretty much like old-style assembly language.    	  ほとんど古い型のアセンブリ言語のように見えます。  
 And I want to tell you how we were able  to make sense out of this code.    	  どのようにして我々がこのコードの 意味を理解できたかをお話しましょう。  
 So what we were looking for is, first of all, system function calls,  because we know what they do.    	  我々がまず探したのは、システム・ファンクション・コールです。 これらが何をするかを知っているからです。  
 And then we were looking for timers and data structures  and trying to relate them to the real world --  to potential real world targets.    	  その後、タイマーとデータ構造を探し、 現実世界に関連付けようとしました、 潜在的な現実世界のターゲットに。  
 So we do need target theories  that we can prove or disprove.    	  そのため、ターゲットの理論が必要です、 証明したり、反証したりできる理論が必要です。  
 In order to get target theories,  we remember  that it's definitely hardcore sabotage,  it must be a high-value target  and it is most likely located in Iran,  because that's where most of the infections had been reported.    	  ターゲットの理論を手に入れるために、 念頭に置きます、 絶対に本格的な破壊行為であり、 価値の高いターゲットに違いなく、 イランに位置する可能性が最も高いことを。 なぜなら、そこで最も多くの感染が報告されていたからです。  
 Now you don't find several thousand targets in that area.    	  すると、そのエリアには数千もターゲットはありません。  
 to the Bushehr nuclear power plant  and to the Natanz fuel enrichment plant.    	  おおむね、 Bushehr 原子力発電所、 Natanz 燃料濃縮プラントに 落ち着きます。  
 So I told my assistant,  "Get me a list of all centrifuge and power plant experts from our client base."    	  それで、アシスタントに言いました、 「顧客の中で遠心分離機と発電所の専門家すべてのリストをくれ」と。  
 And I phoned them up and picked their brain  in an effort to match their expertise  with what we found in code and data.    	  彼らに電話をして、知恵を借りました。 かれらの専門知識と、 コードとデータで見つけたことを合致させるために。  
 And that worked pretty well.    	  これは、かなりうまく行きました。  
 So we were able to associate  the small digital warhead  with the rotor control.    	  それで、関連付けることができました、 この小さなデジタルの弾頭と、 ローター制御とを。  
 The rotor is that moving part within the centrifuge,  that black object that you see.    	  ローターは、遠心分離機内の可動部であり、 ご覧の黒い物体です。  
 And if you manipulate the speed of this rotor,  you are actually able to crack the rotor  and eventually even have the centrifuge explode.    	  このローターの速度を操作すると、 実際にローターに侵入することができ、 最終的には遠心分離機を爆発させることさえできます。  
 What we also saw  is that the goal of the attack  was really to do it slowly and creepy --  obviously in an effort  to drive maintenance engineers crazy,  that they would not be able to figure this out quickly.    	  我々が見たのは、また その攻撃の目的を、 実にゆっくりと不気味に行うことであり-- 明らかに、 保守エンジニアを困らせて、 この問題をすぐに理解できないようにしていることです。  
 The big digital warhead -- we had a shot at this  by looking very closely  at data and data structures.    	  大きいデジタルの弾頭 -- これに狙いを定め、 非常に詳しく、 データとデータ構造を調べました。  
 So for example, the number 164  really stands out in that code;  you can't overlook it.    	  たとえば、164という数が このコードの中で実に目立っていおり； 見過ごすことができません。  
 I started to research scientific literature  on how these centrifuges  are actually built in Natanz  and found they are structured  in what is called a cascade,  and each cascade holds 164 centrifuges.    	  私は科学文献を調べ始めました、 こうした遠心分離機がどのように、 Natanz で実際に構築されたかについて。 そして、発見しました、これらは カスケードと呼ばれる形で構成されており、 各カスケードは 164 の遠心分離機を保持していることを。  
 So that made sense, that was a match.    	  それで分かりました、合致しました。  
 And it even got better.    	  さらに良かったのです。  
 These centrifuges in Iran  are subdivided into 15, what is called, stages.    	  イランのこれらの遠心分離機は 15 のいわゆるステージにさらに分割されています。  
 And guess what we found in the attack code?    	  攻撃コードで何を見つけたか解りますか？  
 An almost identical structure.    	  ほとんど同一の構造です。  
 So again, that was a real good match.    	  やはり、これも見事な合致です。  
 And this gave us very high confidence for what we were looking at.    	  我々が調べていたことについて非常に確かな確信が得られました。  
 Now don't get me wrong here, it didn't go like this.    	  ここで間違わないでほしいのですが、こんなに風に行ったわけではありません。  
 These results have been obtained  over several weeks of really hard labor.    	  これらは、何週間にわたる まさに重労働の成果です。  
 And we often went into just a dead end  and had to recover.    	  全くの行き止まりに入り込むことが多く、 戻ってこなければなりませんでした。  
 Anyway, so we figured out  that both digital warheads  were actually aiming at one and the same target,  but from different angles.    	  とにかく、理解できました、 二つのデジタルの弾頭は、 実際には一つの同じターゲットを、 異なる角度から狙っていました。  
 The small warhead is taking one cascade,  and spinning up the rotors and slowing them down,  and the big warhead  is talking to six cascades  and manipulating valves.    	  小さい弾頭は、一つのカスケードを取って、 ローターを回転させ、速度を落とし、 大きい弾頭は、 六つのカスケードに向けて バルブを操作しています。  
 So in all, we are very confident  that we have actually determined what the target is.    	  全体で、我々は非常に確信があります、 ターゲットが何かを実際に特定しました。  
 It is Natanz, and it is only Natanz.    	  Natanz です、Natanz だけです。  
 So we don't have to worry  that other targets  might be hit by Stuxnet.    	  そのため、心配はいりません、 他のターゲットが、Stuxnet によって 攻撃される可能性については。  
 Here's some very cool stuff that we saw --  really knocked my socks off.    	  我々の見た中でかなりすごいものがあります-- 本当に驚きました。  
 Down there is the gray box,  and on the top you see the centrifuges.    	  下にあるのは灰色のボックスで、 その上に遠心分離機が見えます。  
 Now what this thing does  is it intercepts the input values from sensors --  so for example, from pressure sensors  and vibration sensors --  and it provides legitimate program code,  which is still running during the attack,  with fake input data.    	  こいつがするのは、 センサからの入力値を盗み取るのです-- 例えば、圧力センサや 振動センサからの入力値です-- これを正規のコードに与え、 このコードが攻撃中に稼働して、 偽の入力データを使用します。  
 And as a matter of fact, this fake input data  is actually prerecorded by Stuxnet.    	  実際のところ、この偽のデータは、 Stuxnetによって予め記録されているのです。  
 So it's just like from the Hollywood movies  where during the heist,  the observation camera is fed with prerecorded video.    	  ちょうどハリウッド映画のようです、 強盗の間に、 監視カメラに予め記録されたビデオを送り込むのです。  
 That's cool, huh?    	  すごい、でしょ？  
 The idea here is obviously  not only to fool the operators in the control room.    	  このアイデアは、明らかに、 制御室のオペレータを欺くだけでなく、  
 It actually is much more dangerous and aggressive.    	  実際、もっと危険で攻撃的です。  
 The idea  is to circumvent a digital safety system.    	  このアイデアは、 デジタルの安全装置を迂回することです。  
 We need digital safety systems  where a human operator could not act quick enough.    	  我々にはデジタルの安全装置が必要です、 人間のオペレータが充分に素早く対応できない場合には。  
 So for example, in a power plant,  when your big steam turbine gets too over speed,  you must open relief valves within a millisecond.    	  例えば、発電所において、 大きな蒸気タービンの速度が上がり過ぎたとき、 数ミリ秒以内に安全弁を開放しなければなりません。  
 Obviously, this cannot be done by a human operator.    	  明らかに、これは人間のオペレータではできません。  
 So this is where we need digital safety systems.    	  このような場合にデジタルの安全装置が必要になります。  
 And when they are compromised,  then real bad things can happen.    	  それで、侵害されると、 本当に酷いことが起こる可能性があります。  
 Your plant can blow up.    	  発電所が爆発するかもしれません。  
 And neither your operators nor your safety system will notice it.    	  オペレータも安全装置も気付かないでしょう。  
 That's scary.    	  ゾッとします。  
 But it gets worse.    	  しかし、もっと悪いのです。  
 And this is very important, what I'm going to say.    	  これから言うことは大変重要です。  
 Think about this:  this attack is generic.    	  考えてみてください。 この攻撃は、汎用です。  
 It doesn't have anything to do, in specifics,  with centrifuges,  with uranium enrichment.    	  専用のものとは無関係です。 遠心分離機とも、 ウラン濃縮とも。  
 So it would work as well, for example,  in a power plant  or in an automobile factory.    	  そのため、なんにでも働きます、例えば、 発電所や 自動車工場でも。  
 It is generic.    	  汎用なのです。  
 And you don't have -- as an attacker --  you don't have to deliver this payload  by a USB stick,  as we saw it in the case of Stuxnet.    	  --攻撃する者としては--何ら このペイロードを USB スティックで持ち込む 必要はないのです、 Stuxnet の場合で見たように。  
 You could also use conventional worm technology for spreading.    	  拡散のために従来のワーム技術を使用することもできるでしょう。  
 Just spread it as wide as possible.    	  とにかくできるだけ広く拡散させるのです。  
 And if you do that,  what you end up with  is a cyber weapon of mass destruction.    	  そのようにすると、 結局のところ、 大量破壊のサイバー兵器になります。  
 That's the consequence  that we have to face.    	  これが、帰結です、 我々が直面しなければならない帰結です。  
 So unfortunately,  the biggest number of targets for such attacks  are not in the Middle East.    	  そのため、不幸なことに、 このような攻撃のターゲットの最大数は、 中東ではなく、  
 They're in the United States and Europe and in Japan.    	  アメリカやヨーロッパそして日本にあるのです。  
 So all of the green areas,  these are your target-rich environments.    	  この緑の領域のすべて、 これらがターゲットの豊富な環境です。  
 We have to face the consequences,  and we better start to prepare right now.    	  我々はこのような帰結に立ち向かわなければなりません。 今すぐ準備を始めた方がよいでしょう。  
 Thanks.    	  ありがとう。  
   Chris Anderson: I've got a question.    	  （拍手） クリス・アンダーセン：質問があります。  
 Ralph, it's been quite widely reported  that people assume that Mossad  is the main entity behind this.    	  ラルフ、かなり広く報告されたのは、 皆の推測ではモサドが、 背後の主な実体であるということです。  
 Is that your opinion?    	  これはあなたの見解ですか？  
 Ralph Langner: Okay, you really want to hear that?    	  ラルフ・ラングナー：わかりました、ほんとに聞きたいですか？  
 Yeah. Okay.    	  ええ、わかりました。  
 My opinion is that the Mossad is involved,  but that the leading force is not Israel.    	  私の見解は、モサドが絡んでいますが、 主導力は、イスラエルではありません。  
 So the leading force behind that  is the cyber superpower.    	  背後にいる主導力は、 サイバー超大国です。  
 There is only one,  and that's the United States --  fortunately, fortunately.    	  一つしかありません。 それはアメリカです-- 幸運にも、幸運にもです。  
 Because otherwise,  our problems would even be bigger.    	  というのは、そうでなければ、 我々の問題はさらにもっと大きくなるでしょう。  
 CA: Thank you for scaring the living daylights out of us. Thank you, Ralph.    	  CA：我々を怖がらせてくれてありがとう。ラルフ、ありがとう。  
 I want you now to imagine  a wearable robot  that gives you superhuman abilities,  or another one that takes wheelchair users  up standing and walking again.    	  皆さん 想像してみて下さい ロボットを身に着けることで 超人的な力を出すことができると もしくは 車椅子を使う人が身に着けると 立ち上がって歩けるようになると  
 We at Berkeley Bionics  call these robots exoskeletons.    	  私達はバークレー・バイオニクスで このロボットをエクソスケルトンと呼んでいます  
 These are nothing else  than something that you put on in the morning,  and it will give you extra strength,  and it will further enhance your speed,  and it will help you, for instance, to manage your balance.    	  ただ必要なことは 朝起きたら着るだけです それだけで 超人的な力を持つようになり もっと速く動けるようにもなり うまくバランスを取れるようにもなります  
 It is actually the true integration  of the man and the machine.    	  エクソスケルトンは 人と機械を 真に統合するものです  
 But not only that --  it will integrate and network you  and other devices out there.    	  それだけでなく エクソスケルトンは 周りの世界や装置とも人をつなぎ  
 This is just not some blue sky thinking.    	  一体化させます これは夢物語ではありません  
 To show you now what we are working on  by starting out talking about  the American soldier,  that on average does carry about 100 lbs. on their backs,  and they are being asked to carry more equipment.    	  私達の現在の取り組みについて まず最初に 米軍兵士の例をお見せします 兵士は平均100ポンドもの荷物を背負い その上他にも装備を持たされます  
 Obviously, this is resulting  in some major complications --  back injuries, 30 percent of them --  chronic back injuries.    	  これでは兵士の体には 当然のこととして 様々な問題が起こってしまいます 厄介なのは腰痛で 兵士の30パーセントは 慢性的な腰痛を患っています  
 So we thought we would look at this challenge  and create an exoskeleton  that would help deal with this issue.    	  私達はこの問題について取り組み エクソスケルトンを作り上げました これで兵士の腰痛は解消できるでしょう  
 So let me now introduce to you HULC --  or the Human Universal  Load Carrier.    	  それではここで HULCをご覧いただきましょう どんな人でも 重量挙げ選手のように変える装置です  
 Soldier: With the HULC exoskeleton,  I can carry 200 lbs. over varied terrain  for many hours.    	  兵士：エクソスケルトンのHULCを着ることで どんな地形だろうと200ポンドを背負い 何時間でも歩くことができます  
 Its flexible design allows for deep squats,  crawls and high-agility movements.    	  柔軟に設計されていて 身をかがめることも 這うことも 素早く動くこともできます  
 It senses what I want to do, where I want to go,  and then augments my strength and endurance.    	  自分がしようとすることや 行こうとする先を感知し 筋力と持久力を増強してくれます  
 Eythor Bender: We are ready with our industry partner  to introduce this device,  this new exoskeleton this year.    	  エイソ—・ベンダー：製造パートナーの協力の下 このエクソスケルトンを 年内に世に送り出す用意ができています  
 So this is for real.    	  本当に本当なのです  
 Now let's turn our heads  towards the wheelchair users,  something that I'm particularly passionate about.    	  さて 次は 車椅子の話題に移りたいと思います 私が特に夢中になっているものです  
 There are 68 million people  estimated to be in wheelchairs worldwide.    	  世界中で6800万人が 車椅子を利用していると推計されています  
 This is about one percent of the total population.    	  これは世界の人口の約１パーセントです  
 And that's actually a conservative estimate.    	  控えめに見ても です  
 We are talking here about, oftentimes,  very young individuals with spinal cord injuries,  that in the prime of their life -- 20s, 30s, 40s --  hit a wall  and the wheelchair's the only option.    	  特に問題だと思っているのは 若い頃に脊髄を損傷し 人生真っ盛りの２０代 ３０代 ４０代に 壁に突き当たり 車椅子生活を余儀なくされる人たちです  
 But it is also the aging population  that is multiplying in numbers.    	  しかし高齢者人口の 増加という問題もあります  
 And the only option, pretty much --  when it's stroke or other complications --  is the wheelchair.    	  卒中や麻痺の結果として 唯一の選択肢は ほとんどの場合 車椅子になります  
 And that is actually for the last 500 years,  since its very successful introduction, I must say.    	  そして車椅子というのは 実に500年にわたって 基本的に変わっていないのです  
 So we thought we would start  writing a brand new chapter  of mobility.    	  そこで私達は 人類の移動方法の歴史に 新たな一章を付け加えたいと思います  
 Let me now introduce you to eLEGS  that is worn by Amanda Boxtel  that 19 years ago was spinal cord injured,  and as a result of that  she has not been able to walk  for 19 years until now.    	  ご紹介します eLEGSです 身に着けているのは アマンダ・ボクステルさんです 19年前に脊髄を損傷し そのために 今日まで19年間 歩くことができませんでした  
   Amanda Boxtel: Thank you.    	  （拍手） アマンダ・ボクステル：ありがとう 皆さん  
   EB: Amanda is wearing our eLEGS set.    	  （拍手） エイソ—・ベンダー：アマンダさんが身に着けているのは 先ほども言いましたeLEGSです  
 It has sensors.    	  センサーがあり･･･  
 It's completely non-invasive,  sensors in the crutches  that send signals back to our onboard computer  that is sitting here at her back.    	  これは全く非侵襲性です センサーは松葉杖にあり 背中に搭載されたコンピュータへ 信号を送るようになっています  
 There are battery packs here as well  that power motors that are sitting at her hips,  as well as her knee joints,  that move her forward  in this kind of smooth and very natural gait.    	  ここにはバッテリーもあって 股関節と膝関節の モーターを駆動させ 脚を前へと動かし 足取りはこのように滑らかで とても自然です  
 AB: I was 24 years old  and at the top of my game  when a freak summersault while downhill skiing  paralyzed me.    	  アマンダ・ボクステル：24歳のとき 人生を謳歌していた まさにそのとき スキーの滑降競技中にひどい転び方をして 体が麻痺してしまいました  
 In a split second,  I lost all sensation and movement  below my pelvis.    	  ほんの一瞬の出来事で 下半身の感覚をなくし 動かすこともできなくなりました  
 Not long afterwards,  a doctor strode into my hospital room,  and he said, "Amanda,  you'll never walk again."    	  入院して直ぐに 医師が病室に入ってきて 私に言ったのです 「アマンダさん 残念ですが もう歩くことはできません」  
 And that was 19 yeas ago.    	  19年前のことです  
 He robbed  every ounce of hope  from my being.    	  その医師の言葉は 私の一縷の望みも 奪い去りました  
 Adaptive technology  has since enabled me  to learn how to downhill ski again,  to rock climb and even handcycle.    	  これまでにも 福祉機器のおかげで 再びスキーの滑降競技ができるようになり 岩登りや 手漕ぎ自転車に乗ることもできるようになりました  
 But nothing has been invented  that enables me to walk,  until now.    	  でも 私を歩けるようにしてくれるものは 何もなかったのです 今 この瞬間まで  
   Thank you.    	  （拍手） ありがとうございます  
   EB: As you can see,  we have the technology,  we have the platforms  to sit down and have discussions with you.    	  （拍手） エイソ—・ベンダー：ご覧のとおり 私達には技術があり 基礎は出来上がっています これをどのように応用するか アイデアを広く募っています  
 It's in our hands,  and we have all the potential here  to change the lives  of future generations --  not only for the soldiers,  or for Amanda here and all the wheelchair users,  but for everyone.    	  私達の手には あらゆる可能性があります 次の世代の暮らしぶりは がらりと変わるでしょう 兵士や アマンダさんのような車椅子生活者に留まらず あらゆる人々の暮らしが変わるのです  
 AB: Thanks.    	  アマンダ・ボクステル：ありがとう  
 I just came back from a community  It's a place where women run the show,  have sex to say hello,  and play rules the day --  where fun is serious business.    	  私は 人類の生存に関わる秘密を握る あるコミュニティから戻ってきたばかりです そこでは 女性が物事を仕切り 挨拶のためにセックスが行われ 遊びが１日の中心を占めています - 楽しいことが大切なのです  
 And no, this isn't Burning Man  or San Francisco.    	  バーニングマン・フェスティバルや サンフランシスコのことではありません  
   Ladies and gentlemen, meet your cousins.    	   皆さん そんな暮らしを送っているのは彼らです  
 This is the world of wild bonobos  in the jungles of Congo.    	  ここは 野生のボノボが暮らす コンゴのジャングルです  
 Bonobos are, together with chimpanzees,  your living closest relative.    	  ボノボはチンパンジーとともに 人間と最も近い種族です  
 That means we all share a common ancestor,  an evolutionary grandmother,  who lived around six million years ago.    	  つまり私たちは共通の祖先を持っています 600万年ほど前には 同じ種族でした  
 Now, chimpanzees are well-known  for their aggression.    	  チンバンジーは 攻撃性が高いことで知られています  
   But unfortunately,  we have made too much of an emphasis  of this aspect  in our narratives of human evolution.    	   残念なことに 人類の進化を語る上で この側面が 強調され過ぎています  
 But bonobos show us  the other side of the coin.    	  でもボノボは それと反対のことを教えてくれます  
 While chimpanzees  are dominated by big, scary guys,  bonobo society  is run by empowered females.    	  チンパンジーの群れは 大きくて怖いオスたちが中心ですが ボノボの群れは 力を得たメスたちが動かしています  
 These guys have really worked something out,  since this leads to a highly tolerant society  where fatal violence  has not been observed yet.    	  ボノボは何かを上手く解決したのです この仕組みにより とても寛容な社会が生まれました 死に至るような暴力は これまで観察されていません  
 But unfortunately,  bonobos are the least understood  of the great apes.    	  でも残念なことに ボノボは類人猿の中で もっとも理解が進んでいません  
 They live in the depths of the Congolese jungle,  and it has been very difficult to study them.    	  彼らはコンゴの森の奥深くに住んでいて 研究するのがとても困難です  
 The Congo is a paradox --  a land of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty,  but also the heart of darkness itself --  that has raged for decades  and claimed nearly as many lives  as the First World War.    	  コンゴという場所は逆説的です この上なく生物が多様で美しい一方で 暗闇そのものでもあります - 何十年も続く 激しい内戦で 第一次世界大戦と同じぐらい多くの 犠牲者が出たと言われています  
 Not surprisingly,  this destruction also endangers bonobo survival.    	  当然ながら この破壊により ボノボも危機にさらされています  
 Bushmeat trades and forest loss means we couldn't fill a small stadium  with all the bonobos that are left in the world --  and we're not even sure of that to be honest.    	  肉の売買や森の消失などにより 残されたボノボを全て集めても 小さな競技場すら 一杯にできるという確信が持てません  
 Yet, in this land of violence and chaos,  you can hear hidden laughter  swaying the trees.    	  しかし この暴力と混乱の地で ひそやかな笑い声が 木々を揺らすのを聞くことができます  
 Who are these cousins?    	  誰がそんなことをしているのでしょう？  
 We know them as the "make love, not war" apes  to manage conflict  and solve social issues.    	  ボノボは「戦いではなく愛を交わす」猿です 対立を収めたり 社会問題を解決したりするために  
 Now, I'm not saying this is the solution  to all of humanity's problems --  since there's more to bonobo life  than the Kama Sutra.    	  頻繁に 誰とでも 相手の性別に関係なく性行為をします 人間の全ての問題において これが解決策だと言うつもりはありません ボノボの暮らしには カーマ・スートラ以上のものがあります  
 Bonobos, like humans,  love to play throughout their entire lives.    	  ボノボは 人間と同じく 一生を通じて遊ぶのが大好きです  
 Play is not just child's games.    	  遊びというのは子どものゲームだけではありません  
 For us and them,  play is foundational for bonding relationships  and fostering tolerance.    	  人間にとってもボノボにとっても 関係を強め 寛容さを育む上で 遊びは基礎となります  
 It's where we learn to trust  and where we learn about the rules of the game.    	  遊びを通して 信じることや ゲームの規則を学ぶのです  
 Play increases creativity  and resilience,  and it's all about the generation of diversity --  diversity of interactions,  diversity of behaviors,  diversity of connections.    	  遊びは 創造性としなやかさを高めます また遊びはさまざまな多様性とも関係しています - 多様なやり取り 多様な行動 多様なつながり  
 And when you watch bonobo play,  you're seeing the very evolutionary roots  of human laughter, dance  and ritual.    	  ボノボが遊ぶ姿を通して 人間の笑いや踊り 儀式の 進化論的なルーツを 見ることができます  
 Play is the glue  that binds us together.    	  遊びは 私たちを結びつける絆です  
 Now, I don't know how you play,  but I want to show you a couple of unique clips  First, it's a ball game bonobo-style --  and I do not mean football.    	  皆さんがどんな遊びをするのかは知りませんが 森で撮ってきたばかりの 面白い動画をお見せしましょう まずはボノボ流の球遊びです サッカーではありません  
 So here,  we have a young female and a male  engaged in a chase game.    	  ここです 若いメスとオスが 追いかけっこに興じています  
 Have a look what she's doing.    	  彼女がしていることを見て下さい  
 It might be the evolutionary origin of the phrase,  "she's got him by the balls."    	  「急所を握る」という言葉の語源は ここにあるのかもしれません  
   Only I think that he's rather loving it here, right?    	   彼も楽しんでいますね  
 Yeah.    	  ええ  
   So sex play is common  in both bonobos and humans.    	   性的な遊びは ボノボでも人間でも普通に行われます  
 And this video is really interesting  because it shows --  this video's really interesting  because it shows the inventiveness  of bringing unusual elements into play --  such as testicles --  and also how play both requires trust  and fosters trust --  while at the same time being tremendous fun.    	  このビデオはすごく面白いです なぜなら - 本当に面白いんです 普通ではない要素 - 例えば睾丸など - を遊びに取り入れるという 工夫が見られますし 遊びはものすごく楽しいものであると同時に 信頼を必要とし それを育むものでもある ということもわかります  
 But play's a shapeshifter.    	  どんなことでも遊びになり得るのです  
   Play's a shapeshifter,  and it can take many forms,  some of which are more quiet,  imaginative, curious --  maybe where wonder is discovered anew. And I want you to see,  this is Fuku, a young female,  and she is quietly playing with water.    	   遊びは何にでも変身でき いろんな形を取ります 静かなもの 想像力あふれるもの 好奇心をそそるものなど - そこから新しい驚きが見出されるのでしょう この若いメスは フクという名前です 静かに水で遊んでいます  
 I think, like her,  we sometimes play alone,  and we explore the boundaries  of our inner and our outer worlds.    	  人間も 彼女のように 一人で遊ぶことがあります そうすることで 自らの内と外の境界を探っているのです  
 And it's that playful curiosity  that drives us to explore, drives us to interact,  and then the unexpected connections we form  are the real hotbed for creativity.    	  その遊び心に満ちた好奇心が 探索や交流の原動力となります そこから生まれる予期せぬつながりこそが まさに創造性の源泉なのです  
 So these are just small tasters  into the insights that bonobo give us  to our past and present.    	  これらは ボノボから学べる 私たちの過去と現在に対する洞察の ほんの一部分です  
 But they also hold a secret for our future,  a future where we need to adapt  to an increasingly challenging world  through greater creativity  and greater cooperation.    	  また ボノボは より大きな創造性と協力をもって 世界に適応していかねばならないという 人間の将来に対しても 秘密を握っています つまり それらを上手くやるためには  
 The secret is that play is the key  In other words,  play is our adaptive wildcard.    	  遊びが重要だということです 言いかえれば 遊びとは 何にでもなれるワイルドカードです  
 In order to adapt successfully  to a changing world,  we need to play.    	  変わりゆく世界に 上手く適応するためには 遊びが必要なのです  
 But will we make the most of our playfulness?    	  では私たちは遊び心を最大限に生かしているでしょうか？  
 Play is not frivolous.    	  遊びは 取るに足らないものではなく  
 Play's essential.    	  欠かすことのできないものです  
 For bonobos and humans alike,  life is not just red in tooth and claw.    	  ボノボにとっても人間にとっても 人生はただ必死に生きるだけのものではありません  
 In times when it seems least appropriate to play,  it might be the times when it is most urgent.    	  遊ぶのがもっともふさわしくないように思える時こそ 最も遊ばねばならない時なのかもしれません  
 And so, my fellow primates,  let us embrace this gift from evolution  and play together,  as we rediscover creativity,  fellowship and wonder.    	  だから 同胞たる霊長類の皆さん この進化がくれた贈り物を受け入れ ともに遊びましょう そして創造性や連帯感 驚きを 見つけ直しましょう  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとう  
 Back in New York, I am the head of development  for a non-profit called Robin Hood.    	  私はニューヨークにあるロビンフッド財団で 組織開発の責任者をしています  
 When I'm not fighting poverty, I'm fighting fires  as the assistant captain of a volunteer fire company.    	  そこでは貧困と戦っていますが それ以外の時は ボランティア消防団の副団長として 火事と戦っています  
 Now in our town,  where the volunteers supplement a highly skilled career staff,  you have to get to the fire scene pretty early  to get in on any action.    	  私が住む町では 本職の消防士が高い技能を持っているので ボランティアとして消防団の活動に参加するためには 現場に到着する速さが勝負です  
 I remember my first fire.    	  初めての火事の時のことです  
 I was the second volunteer on the scene,  so there was a pretty good chance I was going to get in.    	  私はボランティアの中で２番目に到着したので 仕事をする機会は十分にありました  
 But still it was a real footrace against the other volunteers  to get to the captain in charge  to find out what our assignments would be.    	  それでも 団長を見つけて 任務を割り振ってもらうのに 他のボランティアと激しい競走になりました  
 When I found the captain,  he was having a very engaging conversation  with the homeowner,  who was surely having one of the worst days of her life.    	  団長を見つけると 彼は 人生最悪と呼べる日に直面した 家の持ち主と 寄り添うように話をしていました  
 Here it was, the middle of the night,  she was standing outside in the pouring rain,  under an umbrella, in her pajamas, barefoot,  The other volunteer who had arrived just before me --  let's call him Lex Luther --    got to the captain first  and was asked to go inside  and save the homeowner's dog.    	  真夜中でしたが 家主の女性は 炎に包まれている家の前で 打ちつける雨の中 傘を差し パジャマを着て裸足で立っていました 私の直前に着いたボランティアは - （スーパーマンの敵役）レックス・ルーサーと呼びましょう -  最初に団長のところに行き 家の中から 家主の犬を 救って来るようにと言われました  
 The dog! I was stunned with jealousy.    	  犬ですよ！ 羨ましくてたまりませんでした  
 Here was some lawyer or money manager  who, for the rest of his life, gets to tell people  that he went into a burning building  to save a living creature,  just because he beat me by five seconds.    	  弁護士だったか資産運用者だったか 彼は後々まで言い続けるでしょう 自分は燃え盛る建物の中に入り 生き物を救ったのだと 私より５秒前に着いただけなのに  
 Well, I was next.    	  次は私の番でした  
 The captain waved me over.    	  団長が私を呼び寄せて言いました  
 He said, "Bezos, I need you to go into the house.    	  「ベゾス 家の中に入ってくれ  
 I need you to go upstairs, past the fire,  and I need you to get this woman a pair of shoes."    	  ２階に行って 火の向こうから家主さんの 靴を取って来るんだ」  
   I swear.    	   本当ですよ  
 So, not exactly what I was hoping for,  but off I went --  up the stairs, down the hall, past the 'real' firefighters,  who were pretty much done putting out the fire at this point,  into the master bedroom to get a pair of shoes.    	  期待していたのとは違いましたが 私は家の中に入って階段を上り ホールを抜けて'本物'の消防士たちの脇を通り - 彼らはほとんど火を消し止めていました - 寝室から靴を取ってきました  
 Now I know what you're thinking,  but I'm no hero.    	  皆さんが考えていることはわかります でも私はヒーローではありません  
   I carried my payload back downstairs  where I met my nemesis  and the precious dog by the front door.    	   私は靴を持って１階に下り 玄関のところで 宿敵とお犬様に会いました  
 We took our treasures outside to the homeowner,  where, not surprisingly,  his received much more attention than did mine.    	  私たちは取ってきたお宝を外で家主に渡し 当然のことながら 犬の方が靴よりもずっと注目されました  
 A few weeks later,  the department received a letter from the homeowner  thanking us for the valiant effort displayed  in saving her home.    	  数週間後 消防団は家主から 火事の際の勇敢な活動に対する お礼の手紙をもらいました  
 The act of kindness she noted above all others:  someone had even gotten her a pair of shoes.    	  親切な行為として真っ先に記されていたのは 誰かが靴まで持って来てくれたということでした  
   In both my vocation at Robin Hood  and my avocation as a volunteer firefighter,  I am witness to acts of generosity and kindness  on a monumental scale,  but I'm also witness to acts of grace and courage  And you know what I've learned?    	   私は ロビンフッドでの仕事と ボランティア消防士の活動の両方で 巨大な規模の 寛容で親切な活動を目にしてきました でも それと同時に 個人単位での 思いやりや勇気に満ちた行為もありました 私が学んだのは  
 They all matter.    	  どちらも重要だということです  
 So as I look around this room  at people who either have achieved,  or are on their way to achieving,  remarkable levels of success,  I would offer this reminder:  don't wait.    	  この会場の中には 既に大きな成功を収めた人も 成功に向かって進んでいる人も いると思いますが このことを覚えておいて下さい 「待っているだけではダメだ」  
 Don't wait until you make your first million  to make a difference in somebody's life.    	  まずは自分が100万ドル稼いでから 誰かの人生を変えようなど 待っていてはダメです  
 If you have something to give,  give it now.    	  与えられるものがあるのならば 今それを与えて下さい  
 Serve food at a soup kitchen. Clean up a neighborhood park.    	  炊き出し所で食料を配り 近くの公園を掃除し  
 Be a mentor.    	  相談相手になるのです  
 Not every day is going to offer us a chance  to save somebody's life,  but every day offers us an opportunity to affect one.    	  誰かの命を救う機会は 毎日訪れるものではありませんが 誰かに影響を与える機会は 毎日あります  
 So get in the game. Save the shoes.    	  その機会を逃さず 靴を救うのです  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとう  
   Bruno Giussani: Mark, Mark, come back.    	  （拍手） ブルーノ・ジュッサーニ：マーク もう一度ステージに  
   Mark Bezos: Thank you.    	  （拍手） マーク・ベゾス：ありがとう  
 This may sound strange,  but I'm a big fan of the concrete block.    	  変に聞こえるかもしれませんけど 私はコンクリートブロックが大好きなんです  
 The first concrete blocks were manufactured in 1868  with a very simple idea:  modules made of cement of a fixed measurement  that fit together.    	  最初のコンクリートブロックが製造されたのは1868年のことで その着想はいたってシンプルでした 一定の大きさのセメント製パーツを ぴったり— 積み上げられるようにしたものです  
 Very quickly concrete blocks became  the most-used construction unit in the world.    	  コンクリートブロックは瞬く間に 世界でもっともよく使われる建材になりました  
 They enabled us to to build things that were larger than us,  buildings, bridges,  one brick at a time.    	  ブロックを１つずつ積み上げていくことで 建物や橋のように大きなものを 作れるのです  
 Essentially concrete blocks had become  the building block of our time.    	  そうしてコンクリートブロックは 私たちの時代における基本構成要素となりました  
 Almost a hundred years later in 1947,  LEGO came up with this.    	  それから100年ほどたった1947年に レゴが作ったのがこれです  
 It was called the Automatic Binding Brick.    	  「自動結合ブロック」と呼ばれていました  
 And in a few short years,  LEGO bricks took place in every household.    	  数年という短い期間で レゴブロックはあらゆる家庭へと普及しました  
 It's estimated that over 400 billion bricks have been produced --  or 75 bricks for every person on the planet.    	  これまでに製造されたレゴブロックの数は推計４千億個と言われ 全世界の人が１人75個ずつ持っている計算です  
 You don't have to be an engineer  to make beautiful houses, beautiful bridges, beautiful buildings.    	  すてきな家や橋や建築が エンジニアでなくても作れます  
 LEGO made it accessible.    	  レゴが垣根をなくしました  
 LEGO has essentially taken the concrete block, the building block of the world,  and made it into the building block  of our imagination.    	  レゴがしたことは要するに 現実の世界の構成要素である コンクリートブロックにあたるものを 想像力のために作ったということです  
 Meanwhile the exact same year,  at Bell Labs the next revolution was about to be announced,  the next building block.    	  ちょうど同じ年に ベル研究所では 次代の構成要素となる革命的技術が 準備されつつありました  
 The transistor was a small plastic unit  that would take us from a world  of static bricks piled on top of each other  to a world where everything was interactive.    	  そのトランジスタという ちっぽけな部品は 静的なブロックが積み上げられた世界から あらゆるものが反応する世界へと 静的なブロックが積み上げられた世界から あらゆるものが反応する世界へと 私たちを連れて行くことになりました  
 Like the concrete block,  the transistor allows you to build  much larger, more complex circuits, one brick at a time.    	  コンクリートブロック同様 トランジスタも１つずつ組み合わせることで より大きく より複雑な回路を作ることができますが  
 But there's a main difference:  The transistor was only for experts. I personally don't accept this,  that the building block of our time  is reserved for experts,  so I decided to change that.    	  大きな違いもあって それは トランジスタは専門家向けということです 私たちの時代の基本構成要素が 専門家だけのものになっていることが 私には納得できなかったので それをひとつ変えてやろうと心に決めました  
 Eight years ago when I was at the Media Lab,  I started exploring this idea  of how to put the power of engineers  in the hands of artists and designers.    	  ８年前 メディアラボにいたとき エンジニアの力を アーティストや デザイナーが使えるものにする— というアイデアの探求を始めました  
 A few years ago I started developing littleBits.    	  そして数年前にlittleBitsを開発し始めました  
 Let me show you how they work.    	  どんなものかご覧に入れましょう  
 LittleBits are electronic modules  with each one specific function.    	  littleBitsはそれぞれが特定の １つの機能を持つ電子部品の集まりで  
 They're pre-engineered  to be light, sound,  motors and sensors.    	  用意されている部品には ライトや ブザーや モーターや センサなどがあります  
 And the best part about it  is they snap together with magnets.    	  これの一番の特徴は 磁石で互いにくっつくようになっていることで  
 So you can't put them the wrong way.    	  間違った繋ぎ方はできません  
 The bricks are color-coded.    	  ブロックは種類で色分けされていて  
 Green is output, blue is power,  pink is input and orange is wire.    	  緑は出力 青は電源 ピンクは入力 オレンジは配線です  
 So all you need to do is snap a blue to a green  and very quickly you can start making larger circuits.    	  ブロックを繋げていくだけなので すぐに大きな回路も組み上げられるようになります  
 You put a blue to a green,  you can make light.    	  青と緑を繋げると ライトが点きます  
 You can put a knob in between  and now you've made a little dimmer.    	  間に調節ツマミを挟んでやると 明るさを変えられるようになります  
 Switch out the knob  for a pulse module,  which is here,  and now you've made a little blinker.    	  調節ツマミをパルス部品と 入れ替えてやると このブロックですが 点滅するようになります おまけの効果として  
 Add this buzzer for some extra punch  and you've created a noise machine.    	  ブザーを付け加えてやると 騒音発生器のできあがりです  
 I'm going to stop that.    	  止めておきましょうね  
 So beyond simple play,  littleBits are actually pretty powerful.    	  単純な遊びに留まらず littleBitsは 実のところすごく強力なんです  
 Instead of having to program, to wire, to solder,  littleBits allow you to program using very simple intuitive gestures.    	  プログラミングや配線やハンダ付けをせずに 直感的に手で簡単に電子装置を  
 So to make this blink faster or slower,  you would just turn this knob  and basically make it pulse faster or slower.    	  組み立てられます 点滅のスピードを変えたければ このツマミをひねるだけで 速くなったり遅くなったりします  
 The idea behind littleBits  is that it's a growing library.    	  littleBitsの背後にあるアイデアは 成長していく部品カタログです  
 We want to make every single interaction in the world  into a ready-to-use brick.    	  世の中のあらゆる電気操作を 部品としてすぐ使えるものにしたい  
 Lights, sounds, solar panels, motors --  everything should be accessible.    	  明かり 音源 ソーラーパネル モーター･･･あらゆるものを手の届くものにしたいのです 明かり 音源 ソーラーパネル モーター･･･あらゆるものを手の届くものにしたいのです  
 We've been giving littleBits to kids and seeing them play with them.    	  子どもたちがこれでどんな風に遊ぶか観察していますが  
 And it's been an incredible experience.    	  目を見開かせられる体験です  
 The nicest thing is how they start to understand  the electronics around them from everyday  that they don't learn at schools.    	  素晴らしいのは子どもたちが 学校で習いもしない身の回りの電子機器の 仕組みを理解するようになることです  
 For example, how a nightlight works,  or why an elevator door stays open,  or how an iPod responds to touch.    	  たとえば終夜灯の仕組みや なぜ自動ドアは人を挟まないのか iPodはどうやってタッチ操作に反応するのかといったことです  
 We've also been taking littleBits to design schools.    	  デザイン学校にもこれを持ち込んで  
 with no experience with electronics whatsoever  start to play with littleBits as a material.    	  電子工学などの経験が まったくないデザイナーに littleBitsを素材として遊んでもらっています  
 Here you see, with felt and paper water bottles,  we have Geordie making ...    	  これはフェルトと紙とペットボトルを使って ジョーディーが作ったものです  
     A few weeks ago we took littleBits to RISD  and gave them to some designers  with no experience in engineering whatsoever --  just cardboard, wood and paper -- and told them "Make something."    	    ついこの数週前にも 私たちはlittleBitsを ロードアイランドデザイン学校に持って行き 工学などは全然知らないデザイナーに渡して ボール紙と木と紙で「何か作ってみて」と言いました  
 Here's an example of a project they made,  a motion-activated confetti canon ball.    	  これは彼らの作ったものの一例ですが 動作を検知して反応する紙吹雪砲です  
   But wait, this is actually my favorite project.    	   これは私のお気に入りです  
 It's a lobster made of playdough  that's afraid of the dark.    	  工作粘土で作ったロブスターですが･･･ なんと暗がりを怖がります  
   To these non-engineers, littleBits became another material,  electronics became just another material.    	   littleBitsは技術者でない人たちのための新しい材料になります 電子部品を素材として使えるようになるのです  
 And we want to make this material accessible to everyone.    	  この素材をあらゆる人に手の届くものにしたくて  
 So littleBits is open-source.    	  littleBitsをオープンソースにしました  
 You can go on the website, download all the design files, make them yourself.    	  Webサイトに行って回路図をダウンロードすれば自分で作れます  
 We want to encourage a world of creators, of inventors, of contributors,  because this world that we live in,  this interactive world, is ours.    	  世界のクリエーター 発明家 オープンソース貢献者が協力する世界を広げたいのです この生きて反応する私たちの世界は  
 So go ahead and start inventing.    	  みんなのものだからです だから皆さん 一緒に創り始めましょう  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 Today I'm going to talk  about unexpected discoveries.    	  本日お話するのは 思ってもなかった発見についてです  
 Now I work in the solar technology industry.    	  私は 太陽光発電の活用に携わっています  
 And my small startup  is looking to force ourselves  into the environment  by paying attention to ...    	  私が始めた小さなベンチャー企業で 目指しているのは 皆さんの周りの環境を クラウドソーシングの･･･  
 ... paying attention to crowd-sourcing.    	  クラウドソーシングの活用によって･･･  
 It's just a quick video  Huh. Hang on a moment.    	  お見せしたいのは 短い紹介ビデオなんですが ちょっとお待ちください  
 It might take a moment to load.    	  もう少しで読み込めると思います  
   We'll just -- we can just skip --  I'll just skip through the video instead ...    	   じゃあ ここはスキップして 先に進めましょう･･･  
   No.    	   そんな  
       This is not ...    	     こんなはずじゃ･･･  
   Okay.    	   収まったかな？  
   Solar technology is ...    	   太陽光発電技術は･･･  
 Oh, that's all my time?    	  あ もう時間ですか？  
 Okay. Thank you very much.    	  ええと ご静聴ありがとうございました  
 So a couple of years ago I started a program  to try to get the rockstar tech and design people  to take a year off  and work in the one environment  that represents pretty much everything they're supposed to hate;  we have them work in government.    	  数年前 こんな活動を始めました 超人気の技術屋や設計屋に １年間休職してもらって 彼らが気に入りそうにもない 職場環境で働いてもらおうというものです つまり 市の行政機関で働いてもらうのです  
 The program is called Code for America,  and it's a little bit like a Peace Corps for geeks.    	  「コード・フォー・アメリカ」と呼んでいて マニア版「ピースコープ」のような活動をします  
 We select a few fellows every year  and we have them work with city governments.    	  毎年 フェローを選んで 市の行政機関で働いてもらいます  
 Instead of sending them off into the Third World,  we send them into the wilds of City Hall.    	  途上国に送り出すのではなく 市役所という 未開の地に送り込んでます  
 And there they make great apps, they work with city staffers.    	  そこでフェローは役立つアプリを作って 市役所職員と検討します  
 But really what they're doing is they're showing what's possible  with technology today.    	  しかし 実際には 彼らは 今ある技術で 何ができるかを示しているのです  
 So meet Al.    	  一例として アルを紹介しましょう  
 Al is a fire hydrant in the city of Boston.    	  アルは ボストン市にある消火栓です   
 Here it kind of looks like he's looking for a date,  but what he's really looking for is for someone to shovel him out when he gets snowed in,  when he's covered in four feet of snow.    	  このチラシは 一見交際相手を探しているように見えますが  実は 雪に埋もれた時に 掘り出してくれる相手を探しています というのは ４フィートの雪に埋もれると  
 Now how did he come to be looking for help  in this very unique manner?    	  うまく消火活動ができなくなると知っているからです いったい なぜこんなに独創的なやり方で  
 We had a team of fellows in Boston last year  through the Code for America program.    	  助けを求めるようになったのでしょうか 去年ボストンに「コード・フォー・アメリカ」 活動に参加している１組のフェローがいました  
 They were there in February, and it snowed a lot in February last year.    	  ２月のボストンにいて 去年の２月は多くの雪が降りました  
 And they noticed that the city never gets  to digging out these fire hydrants.    	  そこで彼らは 市が全く消火栓を掘り出して もらえていないことに気が付きました  
 But one fellow in particular,  a guy named Erik Michaels-Ober,  noticed something else,  and that's that citizens are shoveling out sidewalks  right in front of these things.    	  ただ フェローの中でも とりわけ エリック・マイケル・ウーバーは もう１つのことに気が付きました 市民が 消火栓の真ん前の 歩道を除雪していたのです  
 So he did what any good developer would do,  he wrote an app.    	  そして できる開発者がするように 彼は自らアプリを作成しました  
 It's a cute little app where you can adopt a fire hydrant.    	  雪が降った時に自分が雪かきする 消火栓を選ぶ ちっちゃいアプリです  
 If you do, you get to name it,  and he called the first one Al.    	  選んだら 名前をつけますが 彼は最初の消火栓をアルと名付けました  
 And if you don't, someone can steal it from you.    	  早く選ばないと 他の人に取られるかも  
 So it's got cute little game dynamics on it.    	  という具合に 競わせるのでちょっと参加意欲が湧きます  
 This is a modest little app.    	  これは 普通の小さなアプリです  
 of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year.    	  去年フェローが作った21アプリ中でも  
 But it's doing something  that no other government technology does.    	  おそらく最も小規模です でも 政府が使う他の技術では やらないことをアプリはしています  
 It's spreading virally.    	  このアプリは バイラルに広がっていくのです  
 There's a guy in the I.T. department of the City of Honolulu  who saw this app and realized  that he could use it, not for snow,  but to get citizens to adopt tsunami sirens.    	  ホノルル市のIT部門の担当者が このアプリを見て これは使えると気付き 雪対策ではなく 津波警報の警報機を選ぶのに使えると気付きました  
 It's very important that these tsunami sirens work,  but people steal the batteries out of them.    	  警報が放送されるのは非常に大切なのに 警報機からバッテリーを盗む人がいるのです  
 So he's getting citizens to check on them.    	  担当者は市民に確認してもらっています  
 And then Seattle decided to use it  to get citizens to clear out clogged storm drains.    	  シアトルでは 雨水の配水管の 詰まりを直してもらうのに使おうと決めました  
 And Chicago just rolled it out  to get people to sign up to shovel sidewalks when it snows.    	  シカゴでは つい最近 歩道を除雪してもらうのに一般市民が参加できるようにしました  
 So we now know of nine cities  that are planning to use this.    	  今現在も９市が この仕組を 使うことを計画しているようです  
 And this has spread just frictionlessly,  organically, naturally.    	  この技術は 特に摩擦も無く おもむくままに自然に広がってきました  
 If you know anything about government technology,  you know that this isn't how it normally goes.    	  もし政府が使う技術をご存知でしたら 通常こんな風にはものごとが進まないのをご存知でしょう  
 Procuring software usually takes a couple of years.    	  通常なら 政府の情報システム調達には２～３年かかるところを  
 We had a team that worked on a project in Boston last year  that took three people about two and a half months.    	  昨年 ボストンのプロジェクトに参加した別のチームは ３人で２カ月半しかかけずにこのプロジェクトを終了しました  
 It was a way that parents could figure out  which were the right public schools for their kids.    	  この時は 親たちが子供にふさわしい 公立校を選ぶというアプリでした  
 We were told afterward that if that had gone through normal channels,  it would have taken at least two years  and it would have cost about two million dollars.    	  これがもし 通常のシステム調達プロセスを経ていたら 少なくとも ２年はかかり費用は200万ドルくらい にはなっただろう と後になって言われました  
 And that's nothing.    	  こんなのはまだ序の口です  
 There is one project in the California court system right now  that so far cost taxpayers  two billion dollars,  and it doesn't work.    	  カリフォルニア州裁判所の システム開発では 現段階で 20億ドルの血税をかけながら 今だに まだ機能していません  
 And there are projects like this  So an app that takes a couple of days to write  and then spreads virally, that's sort of a shot across the bow  to the institution of government.    	  政府のどの階層にも こんなプロジェクトがあります 一方 アプリは数日で書きあげられて バイラルに広がっていきます これは政府機関に対する  
 It suggests how government could work better --  not more like a private company,  as many people think it should.    	  威嚇射撃のようなものです これは-- 政府運営を改善する方法を示唆しています 多くの人が政府そうあるべきと考えるような 民営の会社のようにするのではなく  
 And not even like a tech company,  but more like the Internet itself.    	  技術系の会社のようにするのでもなく インターネット自体が成り立っている方法です  
 And that means permissionless,  it means open, it means generative.    	  許可を待ってから動くものではなく オープンで 依存せずに自らを創造していくものです  
 And that's important.    	  そしてそれこそが重要なのです  
 But what's more important about this app  is that it represents how a new generation  is tackling the problem of government --  not as the problem of an ossified institution,  but as a problem of collective action.    	  しかし このアプリでもっと重要なのは 新しい世代が政府の問題に どう取り組んでいるのかを表しているからです 硬直した組織の問題としてではなく 皆で取り組む問題として捉えています  
 because, it turns out, we're very good at collective action  with digital technology.    	  これは非常によい知らせです デジタル技術を使った共同行動が  
 Now there's a very large community of people  that are building the tools that we need  to do things together effectively.    	  非常に得意だと分かったからです 今や 効率的に共同作業を 進めるために必要なツールを作っている 人々のとても大きな共同体が存在します  
 It's not just Code for America fellows,  there are hundreds of people all over the country  that are standing and writing civic apps every day in their own communities.    	  参加者は「コード・フォー・アメリカ」の フェロー達だけでなく 我が国には 自身が属している共同体で日々 何百人もの人が立ち上がり 市民のアプリを作成しています  
 They haven't given up on government.    	  彼らは 政府への期待を捨ててはいません  
 They are frustrated as hell with it,  but they're not complaining about it,  they're fixing it.    	  政府に非常に落胆している一方で ただ不満を言い続けるのではなく みずから解決しているのです  
 And these folks know something  that we've lost sight of.    	  この人たちは 私たちが見失ってしまった 何かを知っています  
 And that's that when you strip away all your feelings  about politics and the line at the DMV  and all those other things  that we're really mad about,  government is, at its core,  in the words of Tim O'Reilly,  "What we do together that we can't do alone."    	  この何かというのは 政治や 陸運局での長蛇の列や その他諸々のことで 私たちが 本当に怒っている事柄に関する感情を 全て取り去ると 政府とは 本質的には ティム・オ・ライリーの言葉を借りれば 「単独で出来ないことを一緒にやる」役割を担うものなのです  
 Now a lot of people have given up on government.    	  多くの人が政府への期待を捨てています  
 And if you're one of those people,  I would ask that you reconsider,  because things are changing.    	  もしあなたがそうだとしたら どうかもう一度考え直してみてください ものごとは変化しているからです  
 Politics is not changing;  government is changing.    	  政治は変わっていませんが 政府は変化しています  
 And because government  ultimately derives its power from us --  remember "We the people?" --  how we think about it  is going to effect how that change happens.    	  政府は最終的には 我々から力を得ているのです ― 「我々合衆国民は」も国民主体でしょう？ ― 我々が問題をどう考えるかによって 変化がどのように起こるのかに影響を及ぼすのです  
 Now I didn't know very much about government when I started this program.    	  この活動を始めた時は政府についてあまり分かっていませんでした  
 And like a lot of people,  I thought government was basically about getting people elected to office.    	  そして多くの人々と同じように 政府といえば基本的に選挙で代表者を選んで終わりと考えていました  
 Well after two years, I've come to the conclusion  that, especially local government,  is about opossums.    	  さて ２年たって 私は 特に地方政府は 「オポッサム」なんだという結論に到しました  
 This is the call center for the services and information line.    	  これは電話相談のコールセンターです  
 if you call 311 in your city.    	  住んでいる街で相談110番に電話すると  
 If you should ever have the chance  to staff your city's call center,  as our fellow Scott Silverman did as part of the program --  in fact, they all do that --  you will find that people call government  with a very wide range of issues,  including having an opossum stuck in your house.    	  一般的に ここにつながります フェローのスコット・シルバーマンのように もし市の相談コールセンターに勤める ようなことがあったら ― 実は フェローはみなそうするのですが ― 非常に幅広い問題で人々が政府に電話をかけてくる― ということがわかります 「オポッサム」が家で動かない なんて相談もあります  
 So Scott gets this call.    	  それで スコットはこの相談を受け 公式の  
 He types "Opossum" into this official knowledge base.    	  知識ベースで「オポッサム」を検索しますが  
 He doesn't really come up with anything. He starts with animal control.    	  何も見つからず 彼はまず動物保護管理課に連絡します  
 And finally, he says, "Look, can you just open all the doors to your house  and play music really loud  and see if the thing leaves?"    	  最終的にスコットは「いいですか 家に通じる扉を全部あけて 本当に大きな音で音楽をかけて出ていくか やってみてくれますか」と言いました  
 So that worked. So booya for Scott.    	  この方法で解決でき スコットは「やった」と喜びました  
 But that wasn't the end of the opossums.    	  でも 「オポッサム」の話はまだ続きます  
 Boston doesn't just have a call center.    	  ボストンにはコールセンターだけでなく  
 It has an app, a Web and mobile app,  called Citizens Connect.    	  「シチズンコネクト」というアプリがあり ウェブとモバイルの両方で使えます  
 Now we didn't write this app.    	  これは私たちの作ったアプリではなく  
 This is the work of the very smart people  So one day -- this is an actual report -- this came in:  "Opossum in my trashcan. Can't tell if it's dead.    	  これはボストン都市装置課の 非常に賢い人たちの作品です あるとき ― これは実際の相談なのですが ― 「うちのゴミ箱にオポッサムが！死んでるかわからないの  
 How do I get this removed?"    	  どうやったら取り除いてもらえますか？」という相談がありました  
 But what happens with Citizens Connect is different.    	  このアプリは全く違う結果をもたらしました  
 So Scott was speaking person-to-person.    	  話を振り返ると スコットは直接１対１で話していましたが  
 But on Citizens Connect everything is public,  so everybody can see this.    	  「シチズンコネクト」では全てが公開されて みんなが見ることができます  
 And in this case, a neighbor saw it.    	  この相談では 近所の人がそれを見て  
 And the next report we got said,  "I walked over to this location,  found the trashcan behind the house.    	  相談に返信し こう書かれていました 「その場所まで歩いて行き 家の裏に そのゴミ箱を見つけた  
 Opossum? Check. Living? Yep.    	  オポッサム？ 見たよ 生きてたかって？ えぇ  
 Turned trashcan on its side. Walked home.    	  ゴミ箱を横向きにして 家にかえった  
 Goodnight sweet opossum."    	  おやすみ オポッサム」  
   Pretty simple.    	   とてもシンプルです  
 So this is great. This is the digital meeting the physical.    	  素晴らしいでしょう デジタルと物理的な現実世界の融合です  
 And it's also a great example  of government getting in on the crowd-sourcing game.    	  そして 政府が クラウドソーシングというやり方に乗った 素晴らしい例でもあります  
 But it's also a great example of government as a platform. And I don't mean necessarily  a technological definition of platform here.    	  また それと同時に 政府が基盤となった 良い例でもあります 技術面でのプラットフォームと  
 I'm just talking about a platform for people  to help themselves and to help others.    	  必ずしも言いたいのではありません 人がお互いを助けあうという意味での 基盤だと言っているのです 「オポッサム」の例では  
 So one citizen helped another citizen,  but government played a key role here.    	  １人の市民がもう１人の市民を助けましたが 政府もここで重要な役割を果たしました  
 It connected those two people.    	  この２人を結びつけたのです もし要求されれば  
 And it could have connected them with government services if they'd been needed,  but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative  to government services.    	  行政サービスでこの人たちを結びつけられたでしょうが 政府がサービスを提供するよりも 近所の人の方が よっぽど良く安上がりな方法です  
 When one neighbor helps another,  we strengthen our communities.    	  近所同士で助け合うと 共同体の繋がりが強まります  
 We call animal control, it just costs a lot of money.    	  動物保護管理に電話すると 多くのお金がかかるだけです  
 Now one of the important things we need to think about government  is that it's not the same thing as politics.    	  政府について考えないといけないことで 大切なことの一つは 政治とは違うということです  
 And most people get that,  but they think that one is the input to the other.    	  これはほとんどの人が理解できるのですが 入力を与えれば出力が得られると考えてしまうのです  
 That our input to the system of government  is voting.    	  すなわち 政府のシステムへの入力は 投票と考えてしまうのです  
 Now how many times have we elected a political leader --  and sometimes we spend a lot of energy getting a new political leader elected --  and then we sit back and we expect government  to reflect our values and meet our needs,  and then not that much changes?    	  何回リーダーを選んできたでしょうか？ ― 新しい政治的リーダーを送りだす ために多くのエネルギーを費やすことも間々あるのに ― 選挙が終わると落ち着いてしまって 政府が私たちの価値観を反映し 必要としていることを満たしてくれると 期待しますが それほどは変わってはいないのです  
 That's because government is like a vast ocean  and politics is the six-inch layer on top.    	  これは政府が広大な海原のようなもので また 政治はこれまで培ってきたものから成り立っているからです  
 And what's under that  is what we call bureaucracy.    	  その培ってきたものの下には いわゆる 官僚機構が存在しています  
 And we say that word with such contempt.    	  この言葉を私たちは大いに侮蔑をこめて使います  
 But it's that contempt  that keeps this thing that we own and we pay for  as something that's working against us, this other thing,  and then we're disempowering ourselves.    	  しかし この侮蔑こそが 私たちのもので 税金を支払っている官僚機構を 私たちの邪魔をしているといった ものとして 存在させ続けています その結果 私たち自らを無力にしてしまっています  
 People seem to think politics is sexy.    	  人は政治に惹きつけられているように思われますが  
 If we want this institution to work for us,  we're going to have to make bureaucracy sexy.    	  もし政府機関に力になってほしいなら 官僚機構を惹きつけられるものにしなければならないでしょう  
 Because that's where the real work of government happens.    	  なぜなら 官僚機構でこそ実際の政府の仕事がなされているからです  
 We have to engage with the machinery of government.    	  官僚機構で動く政府の仕組に取り組む必要があります  
 So that's OccupytheSEC movement has done.    	  「オキュパイSEC」はこれを行いました  
 Have you seen these guys?    	  参加した人たちのやり方を見ましたか？  
 It's a group of concerned citizens that have written a very detailed  that's a response to the SEC's request for comment  on the Financial Reform Bill.    	  米金融規制改革法案に関してSECが 求めていたパブリックコメントとして 行く末を懸念した市民が団結し  
 That's not being politically active,  that's being bureaucratically active.    	  325ページにも及ぶ詳細な 報告書を共同で書き上げたのです これは政治的に活動するのではなく  
 Now for those of us who've given up on government,  it's time that we asked ourselves  about the world that we want to leave for our children.    	  官僚機構に取り組んだ活動です 政府への期待を捨てた人には どんな世界を 子供たちに残したいと思うのかを自問する時です  
 You have to see the enormous challenges  that they're going to face.    	  子供たちがどれほど巨大な 問題に直面するか考えなければなりません  
 Do we really think we're going to get where we need to go  without fixing the one institution  that can act on behalf of all of us?    	  私たちを代表して行動する政府機関を正すことなくして 私たちが行くべき所に 辿りつくことができるでしょうか  
 We can't do without government,  to be more effective.    	  政府なしではできませんし より効率的であるために  
 The good news is that technology is making it possible  to fundamentally reframe  the function of government  in a way that can actually scale  by strengthening civil society.    	  私たちには政府が絶対に必要です よい知らせは 市民社会を強化していくことにより 規模を拡張していくというやり方で 最新技術を用いて 政府機能の抜本的な再編成が 実現できることです  
 And there's a generation out there that's grown up on the Internet,  and they know that it's not that hard  to do things together,  you just have to architect the systems the right way.    	  この国にはインターネットで育った世代がいて この世代は 協力して実行するのが それほど難しいことでないと知っています システムを正しく設計しさえすればよいのです  
 Now the average age of our fellows is 28,  so I am, begrudgingly,  almost a generation older than most of them.    	  私たちのフェローは 平均年齢 28 才です まぁ しぶしぶ認めると 私自身は 大部分のフェロー達の親にあたる世代です  
 This is a generation  that's grown up taking their voices pretty much for granted.    	  この世代は 自分たちが自由に 主張できるということを当然のものと思って育った世代です  
 They're not fighting that battle that we're all fighting  about who gets to speak;  they all get to speak.    	  この世代は 私たちがしてきたように 誰が主張すべきかについて争わず 全員で主張するのです  
 They can express their opinion  on any channel at any time,  and they do.    	  どんな経路でも どんな時でも 個人の意見を主張することができ また主張します  
 So when they're faced with the problem of government,  they don't care as much  about using their voices.    	  このため この世代が政府の問題に直面したら 主張する代表者を決める 選挙のような― 手段はあまりあてにしません  
 They're using their hands.    	  手を使うのです  
 They're using their hands  to write applications that make government work better.    	  手を使って 政府がよりよく機能するためのアプリを作るのです  
 And those applications let us use our hands  to make our communities better.    	  アプリは 私たちが共同体を良くするのに 手を貸せるようにします  
 That could be shoveling out a hydrant, pulling a weed,  turning over a garbage can with an opossum in it.    	  例えば 消火栓を掘り出したり 草を抜いたり オポッサムが入ってしまった ゴミ箱をひっくりかえしたりするようなことです  
 And certainly, we could have been shoveling out those fire hydrants all along,  and many people do.    	  確かに アプリなしでも 消火栓を掘り出せていたかもしれませんし 多くの人がそうしています  
 But these apps are like little digital reminders  that we're not just consumers,  and we're not just consumers of government,  putting in our taxes and getting back services.    	  ただ これらのアプリは 私たちが単なる消費者でないと 気付かせてくれるのです 私たちは 税金を払って 行政サービスを受けるだけの政府の消費者ではありません 私たちはそれだけの存在ではありません  
 We're more than that,  we're citizens.    	  私たちは「シチズン」なのです 「シチズン」の在り方を変えずに  
 And we're not going to fix government until we fix citizenship.    	  政府の在り方を変えることはできません  
 So the question I have for all of you here:  When it comes to the big, important things  that we need to do together,  all of us together,  are we just going to be a crowd of voices,  or are we also going to be  a crowd of hands?    	  最後に 私から皆さんに質問があります もし 私たちが一緒に それも 全員で一緒に行う必要があるくらいの 大きく重要な課題に遭遇したら 私たちは 単なる主張する集団になるのでしょうか それとも それだけではなく 自ら手助けもする集団になるのでしょうか？  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございます  
 Well this is a really extraordinary honor for me.    	  このような機会は 非常に特別で光栄なことです  
 I spend most of my time  in jails, in prisons, on death row.    	  私は人生のほとんどを 牢獄や刑務所で また死刑囚監房で 過ごしてきました  
 I spend most of my time in very low-income communities  in the projects and places where there's a great deal of hopelessness.    	  私は人生のほとんどを 低所得者地域で過ごし 絶望に満ちた環境やプロジェクトのために 捧げてきました  
 And being here at TED  and seeing the stimulation, hearing it,  has been very, very energizing to me.    	  TEDの会場で見聞きした 刺激的なことは 非常に大きな力を 私に与えてくれるものでした  
 And one of the things that's emerged in my short time here  is that TED has an identity. And you can actually say things here  that have impacts around the world.    	  短い時間でしたが ここにいて気がついたのは TED には“アイデンティティ”があることです ここでは世界中に影響を与える 意見や問題を発言できます  
 And sometimes when it comes through TED,  it has meaning and power  that it doesn't have when it doesn't.    	  時に TED から発信されることで さらに有意義で強力なものとなります TED からでない場合は それほど強力にはなりません  
 And I mention that because I think identity is really important.    	  この話をするのは “アイデンティティ”が本当に重要だからです  
 And we've had some fantastic presentations.    	  今回も素晴らしいスピーチを聞いてきました  
 And I think what we've learned  is that, if you're a teacher your words can be meaningful,  but if you're a compassionate teacher,  they can be especially meaningful.    	  ここで目撃してきたことは もし 教師なら その発言は 意味を持ちますが もし 熱意に満ちた教師の言葉なら さらに特別な意味を持つということです  
 If you're a doctor you can do some good things,  but if you're a caring doctor you can do some other things.    	  もし 医師なら 世の役に 立つことができますが 患者を思う医師であれば もっと役立つことができるのです  
 And so I want to talk about the power of identity.    	  “アイデンティティ”の持つ力について 少しお話しします  
 And I didn't learn about this actually  practicing law and doing the work that I do.    	  この力が分かるようになったのは 法律家として働きながらではなく  
 I actually learned about this from my grandmother.    	  実は 祖母から学びました  
 I grew up in a house  that was the traditional African-American home  that was dominated by a matriarch,  and that matriarch was my grandmother.    	  私は 伝統的に女家長が力を持っている 典型的なアフリカ系アメリカ人家庭に 育ちました 私の家では 祖母が女家長でした  
 She was tough, she was strong,  she was powerful.    	  彼女は厳しく また強く すごく力を持っていました  
 She was the end of every argument in our family.    	  どんな時も祖母の一言で 家族の口論が終わりました  
 She was the beginning of a lot of arguments in our family.    	  まぁ たいてい 口論を始めていたのも祖母なんですが・・・  
 She was the daughter of people who were actually enslaved.    	  祖母は 奴隷にされていた人々の娘でした 祖母の両親は  
 Her parents were born in slavery in Virginia in the 1840's.    	  バージニアで奴隷として産まれました  
 She was born in the 1880's  and the experience of slavery  very much shaped the way she saw the world.    	  祖母は1880年代に産まれ 奴隷だったことの経験が 祖母の世の中の見方の大部分を 形づくりました  
 And my grandmother was tough, but she was also loving.    	  祖母は厳しくも 愛情あふれる人でした  
 When I would see her as a little boy,  she'd come up to me and she'd give me these hugs.    	  祖母はかわいい孫の私を見るといつも そばに来て優しく抱きしめてくれました  
 And she'd squeeze me so tight I could barely breathe  and then she'd let me go.    	  息ができないほど強く抱きしめては 放してくれました  それだけでなく―  
 And an hour or two later, if I saw her,  she'd come over to me and she'd say, "Bryan, do you still feel me hugging you?"    	  １～２時間経って また祖母を見たなら 私に近寄り「まだ抱かれてる 感じはあるかい？」と聞き  
 And if I said, "No," she'd assault me again,  and if I said, "Yes," she'd leave me alone.    	  「ううん」なら また抱きついてきて 「うん」と言うと 戻っていきました  
 And she just had this quality  that you always wanted to be near her.    	  祖母は いつもそばにいたいと 思わせるような人でした  
 And the only challenge was that she had 10 children.    	  ただ 祖母が子供を10人産んでいたことが 私の課題でした  
 My mom was the youngest of her 10 kids.    	  私の母は 祖母の最後の子で 私は幼く  
 And sometimes when I would go and spend time with her,  it would be difficult to get her time and attention.    	  そばに行って祖母と一緒にいようにも 時間と注目を得るのは難しかったのです  
 My cousins would be running around everywhere.    	  いとこ達が所狭しと走りまわってました  
 And I remember, when I was about eight or nine years old,  waking up one morning, going into the living room,  and all of my cousins were running around.    	  そんな中でも 私が８～９才頃のあの朝ことを覚えています 起床し リビングに行くと いとこ達は いつもどおり走り回っていました  
 And my grandmother was sitting across the room  staring at me.    	  祖母は部屋の向こうにいて 私をじっと見ていました 最初は  
 And at first I thought we were playing a game.    	  これは何かの遊びと思っていたので  
 And I would look at her and I'd smile,  but she was very serious.    	  祖母を見つめて 笑いましたが 祖母はとても真剣な面持ちでした  
 And after about 15 or 20 minutes of this,  she got up and she came across the room  and she took me by the hand  and she said, "Come on, Bryan. You and I are going to have a talk."    	  15～20分後でしょうか 祖母は 立ち上がって 私の方に来て 私の手を握りしめ こう言いました 「来てブライアン  大事な話があるの」  
 And I remember this just like it happened yesterday.    	  この時のことを まるで昨日のことのように 覚えています 決して忘れません  
 I never will forget it.    	  祖母が誰もいない所に私を連れて行き  
 She took me out back and she said, "Bryan, I'm going to tell you something,  but you don't tell anybody what I tell you."    	  こう言いました 「いい これから言う 大切なことは人に言わないこと」  
 I said, "Okay, Mama."    	  私は「うん わかった」と言いました  
 She said, "Now you make sure you don't do that." I said, "Sure."    	  祖母に「絶対だめよ」と念を押され 「もちろん」と答えました  
 Then she sat me down and she looked at me  and she said, "I want you to know  I've been watching you."    	  祖母は私を座らせ 私を見つめて 言いました 「知っておいてほしいの ずっと あなたを見てきたけど  
 And she said, "I think you're special."    	  きっと あなたは特別だと思う  
 She said, "I think you can do anything you want to do."    	  あなたはやろうと思ったことが 何でもできるようになると 思うの」  
 I will never forget it.    	  決して忘れません そして  
 And then she said, "I just need you to promise me three things, Bryan."    	  「でも３つだけ約束して」と言われ  
 I said, "Okay, Mama."    	  「わかった」と答えました 祖母は  
 She said, "The first thing I want you to promise me  is that you'll always love your mom."    	  「１つめの約束は かあさんをずっと 愛することよ」と言ってから  
 She said, "That's my baby girl,  and you have to promise me now you'll always take care of her."    	  「私のかわいい娘なの 約束して かあさんをずっと大切にするって」  
 Well I adored my mom, so I said, "Yes, Mama. I'll do that."    	  母を大切に思ってたから 当然私は 「ばあちゃん そうするよ」と答えました  
 Then she said, "The second thing I want you to promise me  is that you'll always do the right thing  even when the right thing is the hard thing."    	  次に「２つめの約束は いつでも正しいことをすること たとえ それが難しいことでもよ」 と言いました  
 And I thought about it and I said, "Yes, Mama. I'll do that."    	  少し考えて 私は「ばあちゃん そうするよ」 と答えました そして  
 Then finally she said, "The third thing I want you to promise me  is that you'll never drink alcohol."    	  最後に 「３つめの約束は 絶対にお酒を飲まないこと」  
   Well I was nine years old, so I said, "Yes, Mama. I'll do that."    	   まぁ９才だったので 「ばあちゃん そうするよ」と答えました  
 I grew up in the country in the rural South,  and I have a brother a year older than me and a sister a year younger.    	  私は南部の田舎町で育ち 兄弟がいて １人は１才年上の兄で もう１人は１つ年下の妹です  
 When I was about 14 or 15,  one day my brother came home and he had this six-pack of beer --  I don't know where he got it --  and he grabbed me and my sister and we went out in the woods.    	  私が 14か15才のある日 兄が ６本組のビールを 持って帰ってきて ―どこで手に入れたのか知りませんが― 私と妹を連れて 森へ行きました  
 And we were kind of just out there doing the stuff we crazily did.    	  ただただそこへ行き バカらしい遊びをしていました  
 And he had a sip of this beer and he gave some to my sister and she had some,  and they offered it to me.    	  兄がビールをやりだして 妹にも渡し 妹も飲んだ後 私にも ビールを勧め始めました  
 I said, "No, no, no. That's okay. You all go ahead. I'm not going to have any beer."    	  「やめとくやめとく ２人で飲みな 僕はいいから」と言うと  
 My brother said, "Come on. We're doing this today; you always do what we do.    	  兄に「なんだよ いつもみんなで同じことするだろ 今日もだ  
 I had some, your sister had some. Have some beer."    	  俺も 妹も飲んだんだ 飲め」と言われ  
 I said, "No, I don't feel right about that. Y'all go ahead. Y'all go ahead."    	  「悪い事だし 兄さんたちでどうぞ 」と  
 And then my brother started staring at me.    	  すると兄は 私を睨みつけて  
 He said, "What's wrong with you? Have some beer."    	  「なんだってんだよ？飲めって」 そう言って兄は  
 Then he looked at me real hard and he said,  "Oh, I hope you're not still hung up  on that conversation Mama had with you."    	  いよいよ睨みつけて こう言いました 「まさか ばあちゃんが言ってたこと お前 気にしてんじゃないよな」  
   I said, "Well, what are you talking about?"    	   私が「え なんだいそれ？」と言うと  
 He said, "Oh, Mama tells all the grandkids that they're special."    	  兄は「ばあちゃんは 孫全員に特別だって言ってるんだぜ」と  
   I was devastated.    	   非常にショックでした  
   And I'm going to admit something to you.    	   これから 少し告白します  
 I'm going to tell you something I probably shouldn't.    	  この場が適切かどうか悩みます  
 I know this might be broadcast broadly.    	  この発言は広く公開されるでしょうから  
 But I'm 52 years old,  and I'm going to admit to you  that I've never had a drop of alcohol.    	  私は今52才です そして 告白いたしますが 一滴たりともお酒を飲まずにやってきました  
   I don't say that because I think that's virtuous;  I say that because there is power in identity.    	   美徳の話として告白したのではありません そうではなく この禁酒の話に “アイデンティティ”の力が語られているからです  
 When we create the right kind of identity,  we can say things to the world around us  that they don't actually believe makes sense.    	  正しい“アイデンティティ”を作れば 世の中で信じられていないことでも 納得できるように伝えられます  
 We can get them to do things  that they don't think they can do.    	  世の中の人ができると思えないことでも 実施させるようにできるのです  
 When I thought about my grandmother,  of course she would think all her grandkids were special.    	  祖母のことを考えれば もちろん 孫全員を特別と考えるでしょう  
 My grandfather was in prison during prohibition.    	  祖父は 禁酒法時代には 刑務所にいました  
 My male uncles died of alcohol-related diseases.    	  おじは 飲酒関連疾患で亡くなってます  
 And these were the things she thought we needed to commit to.    	  だから 祖母は 先程の３つ約束が必要と考えたのです  
 about our criminal justice system.    	  私自身は 刑事司法制度について 意見を主張し続けてきました  
 This country is very different today  than it was 40 years ago.    	  この国の状況は 40年前とは 随分違ったことになっています  
 In 1972, there were 300,000 people in jails and prisons.    	  1972年には 30万人が牢屋か刑務所にいました  
 Today, there are 2.3 million.    	  今日では 230万人が牢屋か刑務所にいます  
 The United States now has the highest rate of incarceration  in the world.    	  現在 アメリカ合衆国の収監率は 世界で最も高いのです  
 We have seven million people on probation and parole.    	  700万人が 保護観察中か仮釈放中です  
 And mass incarceration, in my judgment,  has fundamentally changed our world.    	  私の考えた結果では これほどの収監が行われていることで 私たちの世の中は 根本から変わってしまったと断定できます  
 In poor communities, in communities of color  there is this despair,  that is being shaped by these outcomes.    	  貧しい地域―特に有色人種の地域―は 失望や絶望に覆われています これからお話しする様々な問題が  
 One out of three black men  between the ages of 18 and 30  is in jail, in prison, on probation or parole.    	  この状況を形づくっています 18才から30才までの 黒人の３人に１人が 牢屋や刑務所にいるか 保護観察中か仮釈放中なのです  
 In urban communities across this country --  Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington --  50 to 60 percent of all young men of color are  in jail or prison or on probation or parole.    	  一方 この国の都市部で ― ロサンゼルス フィラデルフィア ボルチモア ワシントンは― 有色人種の若者の50から60パーセントが 牢屋や刑務所にいるか 保護観察中か仮釈放中なのです  
 Our system isn't just being shaped  in these ways that seem to be distorting around race,  they're also distorted by poverty.    	  司法制度が歪んでいる傾向は 人種に対してだけでなく 貧しい人にも 不利なように形づくられています  
 We have a system of justice in this country that treats you much better  if you're rich and guilty than if you're poor and innocent.    	  この国の司法制度は 貧しくても潔白な人よりも お金を持っている罪を犯した人に より軽い処罰を与えています  
 Wealth, not culpability,  shapes outcomes.    	  罪の有無ではなく 財産によって 処罰が決まるのです  
 And yet, we seem to be very comfortable.    	  それなのに私たちは とても安心しきっているかのようです  
 The politics of fear and anger  have made us believe  that these are problems that are not our problems.    	  政治での恐怖と怒りの扱い方によって こうした司法制度の問題は 私たちに関係ある問題ではないと 思わされているのです  
 We've been disconnected.    	  私たちは無関心になっているのです  
 It's interesting to me.    	  興味深いことに 関心を持つべき事態が  
 We're looking at some very interesting developments in our work.    	  社会で進行するのを目撃しています  
 My state of Alabama, like a number of states,  actually permanently disenfranchises you  if you have a criminal conviction.    	  私が活動する アラバマ州や多くの州では もし 刑法上有罪となったら 本当に 選挙権を永久に喪失します  
 Right now in Alabama  34 percent of the black male population  has permanently lost the right to vote.    	  アラバマ州では現在 34パーセントの黒人男性が 永久に選挙権を失ってしまった状態です  
 We're actually projecting in another 10 years  the level of disenfranchisement  will be as high as it's been  since prior to the passage of the Voting Rights Act.    	  私たちの予測では あと10年もすれば 選挙権喪失で選挙権を持たない割合が 公民権法制定時と同じくらいに なってしまうと予測しています  
 And there is this stunning silence.    	  そんな中なのに 誰も騒がないこの静けさです  
 I represent children.    	  普段私は子供を弁護しています  
 A lot of my clients are very young.    	  依頼人の多くは とても若いのです  
 The United States is the only country in the world  where we sentence 13-year-old children  to die in prison.    	  アメリカ合衆国は 13才の子供を 死ぬまで牢屋に入れる 世界でたった１つの国です  
 We have life imprisonment without parole for kids in this country.    	  この国には 子供に対して 仮釈放なしの終身刑があります  
 And we're actually doing some litigation.    	  これに対して法廷論争を行っています  
 The only country in the world.    	  こんな国は世界中でたった１つです  
 I represent people on death row.    	  私は死刑囚の弁護をしています  
 It's interesting, this question of the death penalty.    	  死刑の是非の問は興味深いです  
 In many ways, we've been taught to think  do people deserve to die for the crimes they've committed?    	  様々なところで 私たちは 死刑の是非は 犯してしまった犯罪が  
 And that's a very sensible question.    	  死に値するかどうかを考えるものと 教えられていきました  
 But there's another way of thinking  about where we are in our identity.    	  この問は非常に妥当なものですが “アイデンティティ” が どんな  
 The other way of thinking about it  is not, do people deserve to die for the crimes they commit,  but do we deserve to kill?    	  状況なのかを考える別の見方があります その見方とは 人が死に値するかを考えるのではなく 私たちが人を殺すに値しているかです  
 I mean, it's fascinating.    	  非常に興味を引かれます というのも  
 Death penalty in America is defined by error.    	  アメリカでは 時に誤って 死刑判決が下されるからです  
 For every nine people who have been executed,  we've actually identified one innocent person  who's been exonerated and released from death row.    	  私たちが確認した死刑囚の ９人に１人が 実際には潔白な人でした その人々は容疑が晴れて 死刑から解放されました  
 A kind of astonishing error rate --  one out of nine people innocent.    	  驚愕の冤罪率です ９人に１人が潔白なのです  
 I mean, it's fascinating.    	  非常に興味を引かれます というのも  
 In aviation, we would never let people fly on airplanes  if for every nine planes that took off  one would crash.    	  これが航空業界だとして 飛び立った９機に１機が 墜落するとしたら 絶対に 飛行機に人を乗せないでしょうから  
 But somehow we can insulate ourselves from this problem.    	  しかし 私たちには この問題が 耳に入らないようです  
 It's not our problem.    	  私たちの問題じゃない  
 It's not our burden.    	  私たちが背負うものじゃない  
 It's not our struggle.    	  私たちが苦しむものじゃない  
 I talk a lot about these issues.    	  私はこれらの課題を何度も話しています  
 I talk about race and this question  of whether we deserve to kill.    	  私は人種の問題と 私たちが人を殺すに 値するかという問いを話しています  
 And it's interesting, when I teach my students about African-American history,  I tell them about slavery.    	  アフリカ系アメリカ人の歴史を教える時 生徒には奴隷制度について話します  
 I tell them about terrorism,  the era that began at the end of reconstruction  that went on to World War II.    	  “テロ活動” つまり南部を合衆国へ 再統合した時期から第二次世界大戦まで 続いた“テロ活動”のことも話します  
 We don't really know very much about it.    	  実は私たちは 当時をそれほど知りません  
 But for African-Americans in this country,  that was an era defined by terror.    	  しかしアフリカ系アメリカ人には “テロ”の恐怖が特徴の時代でした  
 In many communities, people had to worry about being lynched.    	  多くの地域で 人々はリンチに怯え  
 They had to worry about being bombed.    	  銃撃の対象になることに怯えていました  
 It was the threat of terror that shaped their lives.    	  “テロ”の脅威の影響をまさに受けた  
 And these older people come up to me now  and they say, "Mr. Stevenson, you give talks, you make speeches,  you tell people to stop saying  we're dealing with terrorism for the first time in our nation's history  after 9/11."    	  そんな人生を過した老人たちが来ては 「先生 『アメリカ国民は 911のテロが起きてから 歴史上初めてテロ行為と対抗している』 と言っている人たちがいます！ この人たちに話して講演して そう言うのをやめさせてください  
 They tell me to say, "No, tell them that we grew up with that."    	  『ちがう！“テロ”の中で育ったんだ』 と伝えて」と言います  
 And that era of terrorism, of course,  was followed by segregation  and decades of racial subordination  and apartheid.    	  この “テロ” の時代は ご存知のように この後の 人種差別や 何十年もの人種による服従や 隔離政策へと続いています  
 And yet, we have in this country this dynamic  where we really don't like to talk about our problems.    	  にもかかわらず この国には この問題に関して 話したがらないという力学が働いています  
 We don't like to talk about our history.    	  アメリカの過去の歴史を話したくないのです  
 And because of that, we really haven't understood  what it's meant to do the things we've done historically.    	  このことが 私たちが歴史上行ってきたことの意味を 理解できなくしています  
 We're constantly running into each other.    	  私たちは常に衝突を続け  
 We're constantly creating tensions and conflicts.    	  常に緊張と対立を作りだしています  
 We have a hard time talking about race,  and I believe it's because we are unwilling to commit ourselves  to a process of truth and reconciliation.    	  私たちが人種について話すのは難しいですが 私が思うに これは 真実と和解への プロセスに進んで力を捧げようと していないからです  
 In South Africa, people understood  that we couldn't overcome apartheid  without a commitment to truth and reconciliation.    	  南アフリカでは 国民は自分たちが 真実の発見と和解に深く関与しなければ 隔離政策の克服はないと知っていました  
 In Rwanda, even after the genocide, there was this commitment,  but in this country we haven't done that.    	  ルワンダの大量虐殺の後ですら 和解への深い関与がありましたが アメリカはまだ和解に無関心です  
 I was giving some lectures in Germany about the death penalty.    	  ある時 私はドイツで 死刑についての講演を行っていました  
 It was fascinating  because one of the scholars stood up after the presentation  and said, "Well you know it's deeply troubling  to hear what you're talking about."    	  こんな素晴らしいことがありました 発表が終わった後に 学者の１人が立ち上がり言いました 「あなたの話した課題を聞くのは 私には非常につらいものでした」  
 He said, "We don't have the death penalty in Germany.    	  さらにこう続けました 「ドイツには死刑がありません  
 And of course, we can never have the death penalty in Germany."    	  もちろん ドイツでは 絶対死刑を設けることはありません」  
 And the room got very quiet,  and this woman said,  "There's no way, with our history,  we could ever engage  in the systematic killing of human beings.    	  そして 講堂は沈黙に包まれ 次に別の女性がこう言いました 「歴史的な背景から 絶対にありえないことなのです ドイツではなんらかの制度によって 人を殺すことに関わることはありません  
 It would be unconscionable for us to, in an intentional and deliberate way,  set about executing people."    	  意図的であろうとも 慎重に行われていたとしても 人間を処刑するようになるのは  
 And I thought about that.    	  私たちには 非良心的で受け入れられないものです」  
 What would it feel like  where the nation state of Germany was executing people,  especially if they were disproportionately Jewish?    	  これを聞いて私は考えました もし仮にドイツ国家が人々を処刑し 処刑された人たちが ユダヤ人に偏っている そんな世界に生きているとしたら どんなふうに感じるものでしょうか  
 I couldn't bear it.    	  私には耐えられません  
 It would be unconscionable.    	  非良心的で受け入れられません  
 And yet, in this country,  in the states of the Old South,  we execute people --  where you're 11 times more likely to get the death penalty  if the victim is white than if the victim is black,  22 times more likely to get it  if the defendant is black and the victim is white --  in the very states where there are buried in the ground  the bodies of people who were lynched. And yet, there is this disconnect.    	  でも この国アメリカでは 古い南部の州では 私たちは 処刑を行っています ― もし被害者が黒人ではなく白人だと 11倍も死刑になる可能性が高く もし容疑者が黒人で被害者が白人だと 死刑になる可能性は22倍です ― これが暴行にあった人々の死体を埋めて 葬ってきた南部の州で起こっています それなのに これほどにも無関心な状態なのです  
 Well I believe that our identity is at risk.    	  私たちの“アイデンティティ”が 危険な状態にあるという確信を持っています  
 That when we actually don't care  about these difficult things,  the positive and wonderful things  are nonetheless implicated.    	  複雑な問題が生じていることを 私たちが 実際には気にしないでいると プラスに働く素晴らしいことにも 影響が出てくるという確信を 私は持っています  
 We love innovation.    	  私たちは革命的なことが大好きです  
 We love technology. We love creativity.    	  私たちは テクノロジーや 創造性が大好きです  
 We love entertainment.    	  エンターテインメントが大好きです  
 But ultimately,  those realities  are shadowed by suffering,  abuse, degradation, marginalization.    	  でも 最終的には これらを活用して掴んだ現実も 人々が苦しんだり虐待され地位を下げられたり 社会的に疎外される事で 暗い難しい影を落とすことになります  
 And for me, it becomes necessary  to integrate the two.    	  私は社会の明るい面と暗い問題面を 結びつけて考える必要を感じています  
 Because ultimately we are talking  about a need to be more hopeful,  more committed, more dedicated  to the basic challenges of living in a complex world.    	  なぜなら最終的に私たちに必要なのは この複雑な世界に暮らすための 基本的な課題に対して 希望に満ちて 真剣に取り組み 献身的になることだからです 私にとっての具体的な取り組みは  
 And for me that means spending time thinking and talking  about the poor, the disadvantaged,  those who will never get to TED.    	  TED に決して参加できないような 貧乏で 不利益を背負った人たちのことを 考え話すことに 時間を費やすことを意味しています  
 But thinking about them in a way  that is integrated in our own lives.    	  また そうした人も私たちの世の中と 結びついていると考える取り組みです  
 You know ultimately, we all have to believe things we haven't seen.    	  究極的には これまで見たことの無いものでも 信じざるを得ないものがあります  
 We do. As rational as we are, as committed to intellect as we are.    	  私たちが合理的 また知性的であろうと 取り組んでいるのと同じように  
 Innovation, creativity,  not from the ideas in our mind alone.    	  改革 創造性 革新は 心の中のアイデアだけで 出来あがっているのではありません  
 They come from the ideas in our mind  that are also fueled  by some conviction in our heart.    	  私たちの思いが持つ信念に 動かされているような 心の中のアイデアから 改革 創造性 革新が起こります  
 And it's that mind-heart connection  that I believe compels us  to not just be attentive  to all the bright and dazzly things,  but also the dark and difficult things.    	  この心と思いの繋がりこそが 私たちを華やかで輝かしいものだけに 注意を向けさせるのではなく 暗く難しいものにも注意を向けさせて いくものと信じています  
 Vaclav Havel, the great Czech leader, talked about this.    	  チェコのリーダー ヴァーツラフ・ハヴェルはこう言います  
 He said, "When we were in Eastern Europe and dealing with oppression,  we wanted all kinds of things,  but mostly what we needed was hope,  an orientation of the spirit,  a willingness to sometimes be in hopeless places  and be a witness."    	  「東ヨーロッパにいて 反対派を相手にしているときは 全てのものが欲しいと思ったが でも本当に必要だったのは 希望と 魂の導きと 絶望的な状況にあって目撃者となる 勇気だったのです」  
 Well that orientation of the spirit  is very much at the core of what I believe even TED communities  have to be engaged in.    	  この 魂のあり方というものは TED コミュニティでさえも関わって行くべき 核心的なものと  
 There is no disconnect  around technology and design  that will allow us to be fully human  until we pay attention to suffering,  to poverty, to exclusion, to unfairness, to injustice.    	  私は信じています 私たちが 苦しみ 貧困 疎外 不公平 そして “不公正”に注意を払って初めて 私たちを健全な人間であるようにする 新しいテクノロジーやデザインについても 無関心な状態がなくなるのです  
 Now I will warn you  that this kind of identity  is a much more challenging identity  than ones that don't pay attention to this.    	  注意していただきたのは こんな“アイデンティティ”を持つのは “不公正” に注意を払わない “アイデンティティ” を 持つのと比べると非常に困難なものです  
 It will get to you.    	  やってみればそのうちわかります  
 I had the great privilege, when I was a young lawyer, of meeting Rosa Parks.    	  新人の弁護士のころ 光栄にもローザ・パークス氏に会いました  
 And Ms. Parks used to come back to Montgomery every now and then,  and she would get together with two of her dearest friends,  Johnnie Carr who was the organizer of the Montgomery bus boycott --  amazing African-American woman --  and Virginia Durr, a white woman,  whose husband, Clifford Durr, represented Dr. King.    	  パークス氏は時々 モンゴメリーに戻ってきていて 彼女の２人の親友に会いに来てました バス・ボイコットを組織した 素晴らしいアフリカ系アメリカ人女性 ジョニー・カー氏と 白人でキング牧師の弁護士をした クリフォード・ダーを夫とする バージニア・ダー氏でした  
 And these women would get together and just talk.    	  この２人はときどき会っては 普通の話をしていたのです  
 And every now and then Ms. Carr would call me,  and she'd say, "Bryan, Ms. Parks is coming to town. We're going to get together and talk.    	  この女性 カー氏が電話をくださり 「パークスさんがこの街にくるから 夫婦で会いに行くけど  
 Do you want to come over and listen?"    	  一緒に聞きたい？」と言われたので  
 And I'd say, "Yes, Ma'am, I do."    	  「もちろん 伺いたいです」と答えると  
 And she'd say, "Well what are you going to do when you get here?"    	  「でも何をしに来るの」と言われたので  
 I said, "I'm going to listen."    	  「聞きたいのです」と答えました  
 And I'd go over there and I would, I would just listen.    	  お邪魔して話をただ聞きたかったのです  
 It would be so energizing and so empowering.    	  力や活力を得られるでしょうから  
 And one time I was over there listening to these women talk,  and after a couple of hours Ms. Parks turned to me  and she said, "Now Bryan, tell me what the Equal Justice Initiative is.    	  そして 訪問して この女性たちの話を聞いていました 数時間後 パークス氏はこちらを向き 「ブライアン “平等な正義”運動について教えて  
 Tell me what you're trying to do."    	  何をするつもりなの？」と尋ねたので  
 And I began giving her my rap.    	  ペラペラと話し始めました  
 I said, "Well we're trying to challenge injustice.    	  「不公正な司法に挑戦します  
 We're trying to help people who have been wrongly convicted.    	  間違って有罪になった人を救い 刑法を執行する当局に存在する  
 We're trying to confront bias and discrimination  in the administration of criminal justice. We're trying to end life without parole sentences for children.    	  偏見と差別に立ち向かおうとしています 子供への仮保釈なしでの死刑宣告を 廃止しようとしています  
 We're trying to do something about the death penalty.    	  死刑そのものも変えるつもりです  
 We're trying to reduce the prison population.    	  刑務所に入る人々を減らし  
 We're trying to end mass incarceration."    	  大量収監を終わらせるのです」  
 I gave her my whole rap, and when I finished she looked at me  and she said, "Mmm mmm mmm."    	  ペラペラ話し終えると 彼女は私を見て 「ふぅん へぇ そうなの  
 She said, "That's going to make you tired, tired, tired."    	  それはと～っても疲れちゃうわねぇ」  
   And that's when Ms. Carr leaned forward, she put her finger in my face,  she said, "That's why you've got to be brave, brave, brave."    	   そして 彼女は指さして念を押しながら 「だったら すご～く 勇敢じゃないとね」 と言いました  
 And I actually believe that the TED community  needs to be more courageous.    	  TED コミュニティはもっと勇敢になる必要があると 信じています  
 We need to find ways  to embrace these challenges,  these problems, the suffering.    	  まずは これらの課題や 問題や苦しみを受け入れる方法を 探す必要があります  
 Because ultimately, our humanity depends  on everyone's humanity.    	  究極的には 私たちの人間性は 全員の人間性次第だからです  
 I've learned very simple things doing the work that I do.    	  弁護をして 単純なことが分かりました  
 It's just taught me very simple things.    	  自然と分かるようになったのです  
 I've come to understand and to believe  that each of us  is more than the worst thing we've ever done.    	  私たちそれぞれが 最悪のことをしてしまったとしても ただそれだけの存在ではないと気づき そう信じるようになったのです  
 I believe that for every person on the planet.    	  この地球上のだれもが そういう存在だと信じています  
 I think if somebody tells a lie, they're not just a liar.    	  もし嘘をついた人がいても 単に嘘つきとは考えません  
 I think if somebody takes something that doesn't belong to them,  they're not just a thief.    	  もし他人の持ち物を盗んだ人がいても 単に泥棒とは考えません  
 I think even if you kill someone, you're not just a killer.    	  もし殺人をした人がいても 単に殺人者とは考えません  
 And because of that there's this basic human dignity  that must be respected by law.    	  基本的な人間の尊厳があり その尊厳は法律によって― 守られなければならないからです  
 that in many parts of this country,  and certainly in many parts of this globe,  that the opposite of poverty is not wealth.    	  他にも この国の多くの地域で またもちろん地球の多くの地域で 貧困の正反対に位置するのは富ではない という世界になっていると  
 I don't believe that.    	  確信しています  
 I actually think, in too many places,  the opposite of poverty is justice.    	  貧富の世界ではないのです 私の考えでは 多くの場所で 貧困の反対に位置して遠いのは正義 という世界になっています  
 And finally, I believe  that, despite the fact that it is so dramatic  and so beautiful and so inspiring  and so stimulating,  we will ultimately not be judged by our technology,  we won't be judged by our design,  we won't be judged by our intellect and reason.    	  最後に 私はとても効果的で素晴らしく 鼓舞される刺激的なものであるという 事実は認める一方で 最終的には 人類や社会は テクノロジーによって評価されるものではなく デザインによって評価されるものではなく 知性や理由によって評価されるものではない と信じています  
 Ultimately, you judge the character of a society,  not by how they treat their rich and the powerful and the privileged,  but by how they treat the poor,  the condemned, the incarcerated.    	  最終的には 社会の品格を評価するのには 社会での お金持ちや権力者や 特権階級の扱われ方ではなく 貧乏人や侮辱され収監されている人の 扱われ方で評価するのです  
 Because it's in that nexus  that we actually begin to understand truly profound things  about who we are.    	  正義に繋がるものによってこそ 私たち人類が根本的にどんなものかを 知り始めることができるからです  
 I sometimes get out of balance. I'll end with this story.    	  この出来事を最後に話します 私は―  
 I sometimes push too hard.    	  時々バランスを欠いて 力を入れ過ぎて  
 I do get tired, as we all do.    	  皆と同じように 疲れてしまうのです  
 Sometimes those ideas get ahead of our thinking  in ways that are important.    	  そして 考えたことが思考よりも早く 重要視している方向に 進んでしまうことがあります 私は非常に厳しい判決を受けた  
 And I've been representing these kids  who have been sentenced to do these very harsh sentences.    	  子供たちを弁護してきました この日も牢屋で 13か14才の依頼人に会いました  
 and he's been certified to stand trial as an adult.    	  成人として裁判を受ける能力がある と判定されていました  
 I start thinking, well, how did that happen?    	  なぜ こうなったのだろうと考えました  
 How can a judge turn you into something  that you're not?    	  裁判官はしてもいないことを したことにできるものなのだろうか  
 And the judge has certified him as an adult, but I see this kid.    	  それに私には 裁判を受ける能力のない子供に見えました  
 And I was up too late one night and I starting thinking,  well gosh, if the judge can turn you into something that you're not,  the judge must have magic power.    	  遅くまで起きていてこう考え始めました えっ！ 無実の人に罪を着せられるなら 裁判官には魔法の力があるってことか  
 Yeah, Bryan, the judge has some magic power.    	  そうだぞブライアン 裁判官は魔法の力を持っているんだ―  
 You should ask for some of that.    	  この真偽を尋ねるしかないだろう  
 And because I was up too late, wasn't thinking real straight,  I started working on a motion.    	  夜遅くてきちんと考えられなかったので 申し立てに集中し始めました  
 And I had a client who was 14 years old, a young, poor black kid.    	  依頼人は14才で若く貧乏な黒人の子でした  
 And I started working on this motion,  and the head of the motion was: "Motion to try my poor,  14-year-old black male client  like a privileged, white 75-year-old  corporate executive."    	  書き始めて 申立表題をこうしました 「この14才の貧乏な黒人少年を 特権階級の75才の 白人会社役員のように 裁判するよう申し立てる」  
   And I put in my motion  that there was prosecutorial misconduct and police misconduct and judicial misconduct.    	   さらに この裁判には違法行為があり 検察 警察 そして司法の違法行為がある と書きました  
 There was a crazy line in there about how there's no conduct in this county,  it's all misconduct.    	  裁判手続はすべて不適切で違法だと 狂った申立文を書きました  
 And the next morning, I woke up and I thought, now did I dream that crazy motion,  or did I actually write it?    	  翌朝起きて あの狂った申立文は夢だったのかそれとも 本当に書いたのか 考えてみました  
 And to my horror, not only had I written it,  but I had sent it to court.    	  恐ろしいことに 書き上げただけでなく 裁判所に送ってしまっていました  
   A couple months went by, and I had just forgotten all about it.    	   数か月が経ち 全ての事を忘れていたところでしたが  
 And I finally decided,  oh gosh, I've got to go to the court and do this crazy case.    	  結局 よーし 裁判所に行って この狂った事件に決着をつけると  
 And I got into my car  and I was feeling really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed.    	  最終的に決断しました 車に乗る時は非常に不安な気持ちで  
 And I got in my car and I went to this courthouse.    	  いっぱいでしたが 結局車に乗り 裁判所に向かいました  
 And I was thinking, this is going to be so difficult, so painful.    	  この申立は非常に難しく 苦しいものになると考えていました  
 And I finally got out of the car and I started walking up to the courthouse.    	  車から出て 裁判所の階段を上がり始めました  
 And as I was walking up the steps of this courthouse,  there was an older black man who was the janitor in this courthouse.    	  裁判所の階段を上がっていると 裁判所の清掃作業員らしき １人の年寄りの黒人がいて  
 When this man saw me, he came over to me  and he said, "Who are you?"    	  彼は私を見ると 近寄ってきて 「どこのだれだ？」と言いました  
 I said, "I'm a lawyer." He said, "You're a lawyer?" I said, "Yes, sir."    	  「弁護士です」と答えると 「弁護士かい？」と言われ  
 And this man came over to me  and he hugged me.    	  「はい」と言うと 近づいてきて 私を抱きしめました  
 And he whispered in my ear.    	  そして耳元でささやいたのです  
 He said, "I'm so proud of you."    	  「君をすごく誇りに思うよ」  
 And I have to tell you,  it was energizing. It connected deeply with something in me  about identity,  about the capacity of every person to contribute  to a community, to a perspective that is hopeful.    	  その時の気持ちは何とも言えません 彼の言葉にすごく力を与えられました 私の中にある“アイデンティティ”や すべての人が地域社会や 希望に満ちた展望に貢献できるという  
 Well I went into the courtroom.    	  思いに深く繋がるものでした そして 法廷に向かい 私が入るとすぐ  
 And as soon as I walked inside, the judge saw me coming in.    	  裁判官がじっと私を見て 言いました  
 He said, "Mr. Stevenson, did you write this crazy motion?"    	  「あなたがこの狂った申立を書いたのですか？」  
 I said, "Yes, sir. I did." And we started arguing.    	  私が「はい」と答えると議論が始まり  
 And people started coming in because they were just outraged.    	  激怒した人々が次々と入ってきました  
 I had written these crazy things.    	  私は狂ったことを書いていたので  
 And police officers were coming in  and assistant prosecutors and clerk workers.    	  警察官は入ってくるわ 副検察官や 司法事務員も入ってきました  
 And before I knew it, the courtroom was filled with people  angry that we were talking about race,  that we were talking about poverty,  that we were talking about inequality.    	  気が付くと 法廷は人で溢れ みんなが人種について語ったことで怒り 貧困について語ったことで怒り 不公平について語ったことで怒っていました  
 And out of the corner of my eye, I could see this janitor pacing back and forth.    	  視界の隅に あの清掃員が 窓の外でウロウロしているのが見えました  
 And he kept looking through the window, and he could hear all of this holler.    	  窓の外にも 大声が聞こえていました  
 He kept pacing back and forth.    	  清掃員がウロウロし続けていましたが  
 And finally, this older black man with this very worried look on his face  came into the courtroom and sat down behind me,  almost at counsel table.    	  ついに この黒人老人は 非常に心配そうな顔をして 法廷に入ってきて 私の後ろに座りました 被告席のすぐ目の前でした  
 About 10 minutes later the judge said we would take a break.    	  10分ほどで裁判官が休憩を告げました  
 And during the break there was a deputy sheriff who was offended  that the janitor had come into court.    	  休息中に 清掃員が法廷にきたことに腹を立てた 保安官代理が飛び出してきて  
 And this deputy jumped up and he ran over to this older black man.    	  黒人老人に駆けよりこう言いました  
 He said, "Jimmy, what are you doing in this courtroom?"    	  「ジミー！法廷でなにしてるんだ！？」  
 And this older black man stood up  and he looked at that deputy and he looked at me  and he said, "I came into this courtroom  to tell this young man,  keep your eyes on the prize, hold on."    	  老人は立ち上がり保安官代理を見てから 私を見て こういいました 「この法廷にきたのです この若いのに 勝利を見すえて 続けなさい！ と言いにきたのです」  
 I've come to TED  because I believe that many of you understand  that the moral arc of the universe is long,  but it bends toward justice. That we cannot be full evolved human beings  until we care about human rights and basic dignity.    	  そして私はTED に辿りつきました 皆さんの多くが キング牧師の 「道徳世界の弧は長いが行き着く先は 正義である」を理解していると信じます 人権と基本的な尊厳を気にして初めて  
 That all of our survival  is tied to the survival of everyone.    	  完全に進化した人類となれるのです 私たちが公正な正義を貫くことが 人類が進化できることに繋がります  
 That our visions of technology and design  and entertainment and creativity  have to be married with visions  of humanity, compassion and justice.    	  私たちの テクノロジー やデザイン エンターテインメント 創造性が 人間性 思いやり そして正義への 将来像と結びつかなければならないのです  
 And more than anything,  for those of you who share that,  I've simply come to tell you  to keep your eyes on the prize, hold on.    	  他のどんなことよりも 同じ考えを 共有している方々のために ただ こう伝えに来たのです 勝利を見すえて 続けなさい！  
 Thank you very much.    	  どうもありがとうございました  
   Chris Anderson: So you heard and saw  an obvious desire by this audience, this community,  to help you on your way and to do something on this issue.    	   クリス: 見て聞いて分かるように 提起した課題に対して このコミュニティや聴衆の皆さんが 協力したいと思っているのがわかりますね  
 Other than writing a check,  what could we do?    	  小切手を切って寄付をする以外に どんなことができるか教えてください  
 BS: Well there are opportunities all around us.    	  ブライアン: 身近にさまざまな機会があります  
 If you live in the state of California, for example,  there's a referendum coming up this spring  where actually there's going to be an effort  to redirect some of the money we spend on the politics of punishment.    	  例えば カリフォルニアに住んでいたら 今春には住民投票が行われます 刑罰政策に費やす税金の方向性の 転換を目指すことの是非を問う住民投票です  
 For example, here in California  we're going to spend one billion dollars  on the death penalty in the next five years --  one billion dollars.    	  例えば ここカリフォルニアでは ここ５年で死刑を実行するために 10億ドルをかける予定です 10億ドルですよ  
 And yet, 46 percent of all homicide cases  don't result in arrest.    	  しかし 殺人事件の46パーセントは 逮捕にいたっていません  
 56 percent of all rape cases don't result.    	  強姦の場合 56パーセントです  
 So there's an opportunity to change that.    	  これを変える機会があります  
 And this referendum would propose having those dollars  go to law enforcement and safety.    	  この国民投票では 先程の費用を 法律の徹底や治安維持のために使う提案も 行われる予定です  
 And I think that opportunity exists all around us.    	  このように機会は身近にあります  
 CA: There's been this huge decline  in crime in America over the last three decades.    	  クリス: 過去30年間アメリカで 犯罪の数は大きく減少しています  
 And part of the narrative of that  is sometimes that it's about increased incarceration rates.    	  ときとして この理由の一部として この現象は収監率と関係しているといわれます  
 What would you say to someone who believed that?    	  こう信じる人にはどう説明しますか？  
 BS: Well actually the violent crime rate  has remained relatively stable.    	  ブライアン: 暴力犯罪率は 比較的同じような水準となっています  
 The great increase in mass incarceration in this country  wasn't really in violent crime categories.    	  この国の大量収監の増加の原因は 暴力犯罪のたぐいの増加ではありません  
 It was this misguided war on drugs.    	  麻薬対策の間違った収監政策が原因です  
 That's where the dramatic increases have come  in our prison population.    	  麻薬の摘発が刑務所に収監されている 人数を劇的に増加させているのです  
 And we got carried away with the rhetoric of punishment.    	  私たちは刑罰のレトリックに流されています  
 And so we have three strikes laws  that put people in prison forever  for stealing a bicycle, for low-level property crimes,  rather than making them give those resources back  to the people who they victimized.    	  この国には三振法があります 自転車や安い品物を盗んだだけで 三振法は人を永遠に牢屋に閉じ込めます 被害者に対して償いをさせるのではなく 加害者を閉じ込めてしまうのです  
 I believe we need to do more to help people who are victimized by crime,  not do less.    	  犯罪の被害者には もっと多くの助けが 必要と信じています 少なくではなく  
 And I think our current punishment philosophy  does nothing for no one.    	  現在の刑罰哲学は この人たちには何もしてくれません  
 And I think that's the orientation that we have to change.    	  これこそ変えなければなりません  
   CA: Bryan, you've struck a massive chord here.    	   クリス: ブライアン 大勢が同調してくれていますよ  
 You're an inspiring person.    	  奮起させられる話をありがとう  
 Thank you so much for coming to TED. Thank you.    	  TED に参加してくれてありがとう  
    Announcer: Threats, in the wake of Bin Laden's death, have spiked.    	    キャスター: ビン・ラディンの死を受けて テロ脅威への緊張が急増・・・  
 Announcer Two: Famine in Somalia. Announcer Three: Police pepper spray.    	  ソマリアでの飢餓が・・・ 警察が催涙ガスを・・・  
 Announcer Four: Vicious cartels. Announcer Five: Caustic cruise lines.    	  悪質なカルテルが・・・ 豪華客船の転覆・・・  
 Announcer Six: Societal decay. Announcer Seven: 65 dead.    	  社会の腐敗が・・・ 65人の死亡者が・・・  
 Announcer Eight: Tsunami warning. Announcer Nine: Cyberattacks.    	  津波警報が・・・ サイバーテロが・・・  
 Multiple Announcers: Drug war. Mass destruction. Tornado.    	  麻薬戦争・・・ 大量破壊・・・ 竜巻・・・  
 Recession. Default. Doomsday. Egypt. Syria.    	  景気後退・・・ 破綻・・・ 破滅・・・ エジプト・・・ シリア・・・  
 Crisis. Death. Disaster.    	  危機・・・ 死・・・ 大災害・・・  
 Oh, my God.    	  なんてひどい・・・  
 Peter Diamandis: So those are just a few of the clips  I collected over the last six months --  could have easily been the last six days  or the last six years.    	  ディアマンディス: これは ここ６カ月の ニュース映像の一部にすぎません 過去６日分でも ６年分を集めても 同じようなものになったでしょう  
 The point is that the news media  preferentially feeds us negative stories  because that's what our minds pay attention to.    	  言いたいのは ニュース報道が 悲劇的な出来事ばかりを 見せているということです 私たちが 悲劇的なものに 注目するからです  
 And there's a very good reason for that.    	  これにはもっともな理由があります  
 Every second of every day,  our senses bring in way too much data  than we can possibly process in our brains.    	  人間の脳がとても処理しきれないような 膨大な情報が全感覚を通して 一瞬たりとも休むことなく 流れ込んできます  
 And because nothing is more important to us  than survival,  the first stop of all of that data  is an ancient sliver of the temporal lobe  called the amygdala.    	  生き残ることが最も大切な為 この膨大な量の情報が 最初に向かうのは 扁桃体と呼ばれる 脳の側頭葉にある 原始的で小さい組織です  
 Now the amygdala is our early warning detector,  our danger detector.    	  扁桃体は 早期に警戒すべき状況を 察知する仕組で 危険を知らせる警報器です  
 It sorts and scours through all of the information  looking for anything in the environment that might harm us.    	  扁桃体は あらゆる情報を整理して 周囲の環境の中に 害を及ぼしそうなものが無いか探ります  
 So given a dozen news stories,  we will preferentially look  at the negative news.    	  私たちは一連のニュースを聞いたら まずは悲劇的なニュースに 目を向けるようにできています  
 And that old newspaper saying,  "If it bleeds it leads,"  is very true.    	  新聞業界の古い格言の 「血まみれなら大きく扱う」 に従うのは まったくの正解です  
 So given all of our digital devices  that are bringing all the negative news to us  seven days a week, 24 hours a day,  it's no wonder that we're pessimistic.    	  最近ではさらに 24時間365日 悲劇的なニュースばかりを 私たちの周りのデジタル機器が 流していることを考えれば 悲観的になってもしかたがありません 世界がどんどん悪い方向へ  
 It's no wonder that people think  that the world is getting worse.    	  進んでいくと人々が考えても しかたがありません しかし おそらく 現実は違います  
 But perhaps that's not the case.    	  おそらく そうではなくて  
 Perhaps instead,  it's the distortions brought to us  of what's really going on.    	  現実が歪められて 伝えられているのです さまざまな原動力によって この１世紀の間でとげてきた  
 Perhaps the tremendous progress we've made  over the last century  are, in fact, accelerating to a point  that we have the potential in the next three decades  to create a world of abundance.    	  膨大な進歩は さらに加速して 来たる30年間で 何も尽きることがない世界を 築ける可能性がある状態まで来ています もちろん 一連の問題が無いと  
 Now I'm not saying  climate crisis, species extinction,  water and energy shortage -- we surely do.    	  言っているわけではなく 気候変動の危機 絶滅危惧種 水資源やエネルギー資源の枯渇などの 一連の問題があります  
 And as humans, we are far better  at seeing the problems way in advance,  but ultimately we knock them down.    	  しかし人類は 問題を十分に余裕をもって 察知することに長けてる上に 最終的には 問題を 片づけてしまうのです  
 So let's look  at what this last century has been  to see where we're going.    	  将来がどうなるか 理解するために この１世紀がどんなものだったか 振り返って見てみましょう  
 Over the last hundred years,  the average human lifespan has more than doubled,  average per capita income adjusted for inflation  around the world has tripled.    	  この100年間で 平均寿命は ２倍以上になり １人当たりの平均収入は インフレを差し引いても ３倍になっています  
 Childhood mortality  has come down a factor of 10.    	  乳幼児の死亡率は 10分の１に低下しました  
 Add to that the cost of food, electricity,  transportation, communication  have dropped 10 to 1,000-fold.    	  これに加えて 食糧コスト 電力 輸送 移動 伝達手段のコストは それぞれ10分の１程度から 1,000分の１程度に低下しました  
 Steve Pinker has showed us  that, in fact, we're living during the most peaceful time ever  in human history.    	  スティーブ・ピンカーの発表によれば 実は 人類は歴史上 もっとも平穏な時代を 過ごしています  
 And Charles Kenny  that global literacy has gone from 25 percent to over 80 percent  in the last 130 years. We truly are living in an extraordinary time.    	  また チャールス・ケニーによれば この130年間で 25パーセントだった 世界の識字率は80パーセントに増加しています 私たちは 本当に たぐいまれな時代を過ごしています  
 And many people forget this.    	  多くの人がこれを忘れて  
 And we keep setting our expectations higher and higher.    	  期待する目標を より高く変え続けているのです  
 In fact, we redefine what poverty means.    	  実際 私たちは貧困の意味を 再定義しています  
 Think of this, in America today,  the majority of people under the poverty line  still have electricity, water, toilets, refrigerators,  television, mobile phones,  air conditioning and cars.    	  考えてみてください 今アメリカでは 政府が決めた貧困水準以下で 暮らす人でさえ 大部分の人が 電気 水道 トイレ 冷蔵庫 テレビ 携帯電話 エアコン そして 車までも持っています  
 The wealthiest robber barons of the last century, the emperors on this planet,  could have never dreamed of such luxuries.    	  前世紀では世界級の富豪『泥棒男爵』や 皇帝たちでさえも こんな贅沢な状況は 夢にも思わなかったでしょう  
 Underpinning much of this  is technology,  and of late,  exponentially growing technologies.    	  これを支えた大きなものは 新技術でした とくに最近では 指数関数的に 成長する技術です  
 My good friend Ray Kurzweil  showed that any tool that becomes an information technology  jumps on this curve, on Moore's Law,  and experiences price performance doubling  every 12 to 24 months.    	  親しい友人のレイ・カーツワイルが 情報技術で扱うことになれば どんな装置でも ムーアの法則の この曲線に従って 伸びていくと教えてくれました 対価格性能が 12カ月から24カ月毎に 倍になるという経験をします  
 That's why the cellphone in your pocket  than a supercomputer of the '70s.    	  みなさんのポケットにある携帯電話は 70年代のスーパーコンピュータよりも まさに 百万倍も安く 千倍も速いのです  
 Now look at this curve.    	  この曲線を見てみてください  
 This is Moore's Law over the last hundred years.    	  ここ100年間の ムーアの法則の表です  
 I want you to notice two things from this curve.    	  ２つのことに注目してください  
 Number one, how smooth it is --  through good time and bad time, war time and peace time,  recession, depression and boom time.    	  １つ目は なだらかな 乱れのない曲線ということです 良い時も悪い時も 戦時も平時も 景気後退や恐慌 ブームやバブル時もです  
 This is the result of faster computers  being used to build faster computers.    	  これは速いコンピュータを設計するのに 法則の想定よりも速いコンピュータを 使ったからです  
 It doesn't slow for any of our grand challenges.    	  地球規模の課題に直面した時でも 成長速度は落ちていません  
 on a log curve on the left,  it's curving upwards.    	  ２つ目は 縦軸は対数で目盛をとって 線を引いたにも関わらず 線が直線よりも上向きに上っています  
 The rate at which the technology is getting faster  is itself getting faster.    	  技術が向上する速度までも さらに速くなっていくのです  
 And on this curve, riding on Moore's Law,  are a set of extraordinarily powerful technologies  available to all of us.    	  ムーアの法則の通りにうまくいくなら 常に桁はずれの強力な技術が出現しつづけることを この曲線が示しています  
 Cloud computing,  what my friends at Autodesk call infinite computing;  sensors and networks; robotics;  3D printing, which is the ability to democratize and distribute  personalized production around the planet;  synthetic biology;  fuels, vaccines and foods;  digital medicine; nanomaterials; and A.I.    	  クラウドコンピューティング オートデスクが呼ぶには インフィニットコンピューティング センサー、ネットワーク、ロボット 3D プリンタ技術 これは 生産作業を大衆化し 個別生産を広げる力があります 合成生物学 多様な燃料 ワクチン 食品 デジタル医療 ナノテク素材 そして人工知能  
 I mean, how many of you saw the winning of Jeopardy  by IBM's Watson?    	  人工知能の例です クイズの ジョパディでIBMのワトソンが 勝つのを見た人は どれくらいいますか？  
 I mean, that was epic.    	  それは 素晴らしい瞬間でした  
 In fact, I scoured the headlines  looking for the best headline in a newspaper I could.    	  実は 一番響く新聞の見出しを 全力で探していました  
 And I love this: "Watson Vanquishes Human Opponents."    	  この一文です「ワトソン が 人間の対戦相手を打ち負かした」  
 Jeopardy's not an easy game.    	  ジョパディは簡単なゲームではありません  
 It's about the nuance of human language.    	  人が使う言語のニュアンスがわかる必要があります  
 And imagine if you would  A.I.'s like this on the cloud  available to every person with a cellphone.    	  想像してください みなさんが クラウド上にあり こんな高性能の人工知能を 携帯電話で使えます  
 Four years ago here at TED,  Ray Kurzweil and I started a new university  called Singularity University.    	  ４年前 まさにこの TED で 私と レイ・カーツワイルは シンギュラリティ大学 という新しい大学を 作りました  
 And we teach our students all of these technologies,  and particularly how they can be used  to solve humanity's grand challenges.    	  大学で教えるのは 最先端技術ですが 同時に これらの技術が 人類全体の課題を 解決するのに どう使えるかを教えます  
 And every year we ask them  to start a company or a product or a service  that can affect positively the lives of a billion people  within a decade.    	  また 毎年生徒に 10年以内に 10億の人の生活に 影響を及ぼせるような 会社や製品やサービスを 創るよう課題を出しています  
 Think about that, the fact that, literally, a group of students  can touch the lives of a billion people today.    	  考えてみてください ただの学生の集団が 10億人の生活に影響を 与える可能性があるという現状は  
 30 years ago that would have sounded ludicrous.    	  30年前にはただの冗談だったでしょう  
 Today we can point at dozens of companies  that have done just that.    	  こんにちでは それを 成し遂げた会社を 数十社は数えられるでしょう  
 When I think about creating abundance,  it's not about creating a life of luxury for everybody on this planet;  it's about creating a life of possibility.    	  尽きることのない状態を創り出す ということで私が考えているのは 地球上にすむ全員に 贅沢なものを与えることではなく 可能性のあることを 試みようとすることです  
 It is about taking that which was scarce  and making it abundant.    	  希少だったものを 尽きることのないものに することです  
 You see, scarcity is contextual,  and technology is a resource-liberating force.    	  ご存知のように 希少かどうかは その背景によります 新技術は資源を自由に使えるようにする 原動力になります  
 Let me give you an example.    	  例をご紹介します  
 So this is a story of Napoleon III  He's the dude on the left.    	  これは 1800年代半ばの ナポレオン３世の話です この写真の左のひとです シャムの王を  
 He invited over to dinner  All of Napoleon's troops  were fed with silver utensils,  Napoleon himself with gold utensils.    	  夕食に招待しました ナポレオンの兵は 銀食器で食事を取りました ナポレオン本人は金食器でした  
 But the King of Siam,  he was fed with aluminum utensils.    	  しかし シャム王は アルミニウムの食器で食事しました  
 You see, aluminum  was the most valuable metal on the planet,  worth more than gold and platinum.    	  ご存知のように アルミニウムは 当時 地球上でもっとも価値ある金属でした 金よりもプラチナよりも価値があるとされていました  
 It's the reason that the tip of the Washington Monument  is made of aluminum.    	  価値があったが故に ワシントン記念塔の冠石が アルミニウムで出来ているのです  
 You see, even though aluminum  is 8.3 percent of the Earth by mass,  it doesn't come as a pure metal.    	  わかりますか アルミニウムは 地球全体の8.3パーセントを 占めているにも関わらず 純粋な金属としては存在していません  
 It's all bound by oxygen and silicates.    	  アルミニウムはケイ素と酸素に 結合してしまっています  
 But then the technology of electrolysis came along  and literally made aluminum so cheap  that we use it with throw-away mentality.    	  しかし ある時 電気分解の技術が 使えるようになって アルミニウムをすごく安いものにしたので 文字通り 湯水のように使える程になりました  
 So let's project this analogy going forward.    	  この類推を今後の人類の姿に例えて 予想してみましょう  
 We think about energy scarcity.    	  人類は エネルギーの枯渇を考えますが  
 Ladies and gentlemen,  we are on a planet  that is bathed with 5,000 times more energy  than we use in a year.    	  よろしいですか 私たちがいるこの地球は １年で私たちが使用するエネルギーの ５千倍のエネルギーを 浴びています  
 16 terawatts of energy hits the Earth's surface every 88 minutes.    	  16テラワットのエネルギーが 地球の表面に降り注いでいます  
 It's not about being scarce,  it's about accessibility.    	  つまり 何が希少かということではなく 利用可能かどうかということなのです  
 And there's good news here.    	  ここで いいお知らせがあります  
 For the first time, this year  the cost of solar-generated electricity  is 50 percent that of diesel-generated electricity in India --  8.8 rupees versus 17 rupees.    	  これまでで初めて 今年インドでは 太陽光発電費用が ディーゼル発電費用の半分になったのです 太陽光 8.8 ルピー対 ディーゼル17 ルピーです  
 The cost of solar dropped 50 percent last year.    	  去年 太陽光の費用が 半値になりました  
 Last month, MIT put out a study  showing that by the end of this decade,  in the sunny parts of the United States,  solar electricity will be six cents a kilowatt hour  compared to 15 cents  as a national average.    	  先月 MIT が発表した研究では 2020年迄には アメリカでは 太陽光電力費用の国内平均が １ワット当たり15セントになり 太陽が良く当たる場所なら ６セントになると予測しています  
 And if we have abundant energy,  we also have abundant water.    	  もし エネルギーが尽きないとすれば 水資源も尽きないのです  
 Now we talk about water wars.    	  今度は 水資源獲得の争いや論争について話しましょう  
 Do you remember  when Carl Sagan turned the Voyager spacecraft  back towards the Earth,  in 1990 after it just passed Saturn?    	  1990年にボイジャーが 土星を通過した直後 カール・セーガンが 探査機の向きを変えさせて 地球を撮らせたのを 覚えていますか？  
 He took a famous photo. What was it called?    	  その時有名な写真を撮りました なんて呼んでいましたか？  
 "A Pale Blue Dot."    	  「淡く青い点」  
 Because we live on a water planet.    	  水に満ちた惑星にいるからです  
 We live on a planet 70 percent covered by water.    	  70パーセントが水に包まれた 惑星の上に生きています  
 Yes, 97.5 percent is saltwater,  two percent is ice,  and we fight over a half a percent of the water on this planet,  but here too there is hope.    	  もちろん 97.5パーセントは海水で ２パーセントは氷です この惑星の残りの 0.5 パーセントの水を 争っています しかし ここにも希望があります  
 And there is technology coming online,  not 10, 20 years from now,  right now.    	  技術がオンラインで広まってきています 10年後20年後というのではなく 今存在しているのです  
 There's nanotechnology coming on, nanomaterials.    	  ナノテクもあります ナノテク素材です  
 And the conversation I had with Dean Kamen this morning,  one of the great DIY innovators,  I'd like to share with you -- he gave me permission to do so --  his technology called Slingshot  that many of you may have heard of,  it is the size of a small dorm room refrigerator.    	  また こんな話もあります 今朝 自作発明家のひとり ディーン・ケーメンと話しました 彼も許可してくれたので 彼が発明したスリングショットという 技術を紹介したいと 思います 皆さんもご存知かもしれませんが 独り暮らし用冷蔵庫くらいの 大きさです  
 out of any source -- saltwater, polluted water, latrine --  at less than two cents a liter.    	  これは 塩水 汚染水 トイレの水などの どんなものの水分でも １リットルあたり２セント以下の費用で 一日1000 リットルの速度で 飲み水に変えられます  
 The chairman of Coca-Cola has just agreed  of hundreds of units of this in the developing world.    	  つい最近 コカ・コーラの会長が 開発途上国で 何百ものこの機械を 使う大規模な実用化実験に合意しました  
 And if that pans out,  which I have every confidence it will,  Coca-Cola will deploy this globally  to 206 countries  around the planet.    	  もし 実験がうまくいけば -- もちろん うまくいくと信じていますが -- コカ・コーラは この機械を世界206 ヶ国に グローバル展開します これは 現在存在している  
 This is the kind of innovation, empowered by this technology,  that exists today. And we've seen this in cellphones.    	  技術の力を借りて実現できた技術革新といえるでしょう 人類は携帯電話でも同じ現象を見てきました  
 My goodness, we're going to hit 70 percent penetration  of cellphones in the developing world  by the end of 2013.    	  すごいのは 2013年末には 開発途上国での携帯電話の普及率が 70 パーセントにも到達します  
 Think about it,  that a Masai warrior on a cellphone in the middle of Kenya  than President Reagan did 25 years ago.    	  考えてみてください ケニヤのどまんなかの マサイ族の戦士は レーガン大統領が 25年前に 持っていたよりも良い携帯装置を持つのです  
 And if they're on a smartphone on Google,  they've got access to more knowledge and information  than President Clinton did 15 years ago.    	  スマートフォンでグーグルが使えれば マサイ族は15年前のクリントン大統領よりも 多くの知識や情報を利用できます 誰もこれまで予見してこなかったような  
 They're living in a world of information and communication abundance  that no one could have ever predicted.    	  情報や伝達手段にあふれた世界に 彼らは生きています もっと素晴らしいのは  
 the things that you and I  spent tens and hundreds of thousands of dollars for --  GPS, HD video and still images,  libraries of books and music,  medical diagnostic technology --  are now literally dematerializing and demonetizing  into your cellphone.    	  みなさんや私が 数万やら数十万ドルを使ってきた GPS HDビデオや高解像度写真 書籍や音楽のコレクション 医療診断技術などのものが 今度は 文字通り姿を消し お金を出さなくてもよいものになり 携帯電話に組み込まれるのです  
 Probably the best part of it  is what's coming down the pike in health.    	  携帯電話の技術革新で今１番すごいのは 健康について起ころうとしているこの出来事です  
 Last month, I had the pleasure of announcing with Qualcomm Foundation  something called the $10 million Qualcomm Tricorder X Prize.    	  先月 クアルコム財団と一緒に 1,000万ドルが賞金の クアルコム トライコーダー X賞という コンテストを始めました  
 We're challenging teams around the world  to basically combine these technologies  into a mobile device  that you can speak to, because it's got A.I.,  you can cough on it, you can do a finger blood prick.    	  世界中のグループに挑戦しているのです 様々な先端技術を組み合わせて 携帯装置に組み込む方法を競います 人工知能付なので 話しかけたり 咳を診てもらったり 指先からの採血で検査を行えます  
 And to win, it needs to be able to diagnose you better  than a team of board-certified doctors.    	  競争に勝つには そのチームの装置が 専門医による医療チームよりも 正しく診断できなければなりません  
 So literally, imagine this device  in the middle of the developing world where there are no doctors,  25 percent of the disease burden  and 1.3 percent of the health care workers.    	  新開発の装置がこんな場所にあったらと想像してください 開発途上国のまっただなかで 医者がいなくて 人口の 25パーセントが病気に苦しみ 1.3パーセントが医療従事者というそんな場所にあったら  
 When this device sequences an RNA or DNA virus  that it doesn't recognize,  it calls the CDC  and prevents the pandemic from happening in the first place.    	  この装置がRNAやDNA ウィルスの 塩基配列を調べても 認識できない時は CDCに通報し 大流行が起きないように根本から防止します  
 But here, here is the biggest force  for bringing about a world of abundance.    	  しかし これこそが尽きることがない世の中を 作りだす最大の原動力です  
 I call it the rising billion.    	  これを昇り来る 10 億と呼んでいます  
 So the white lines here are population.    	  グラフの白棒は人口を表しています  
 We just passed the seven billion mark on Earth.    	  地球の人口は70億人の線を超えたところです  
 And by the way,  the biggest protection against a population explosion  is making the world educated  and healthy.    	  ちょっとしたことですが 人口の爆発を防ぐ最大の手段は 世界の人々をもれなく 教養のある健康な人々にすれば良いのです  
 In 2010,  we had just short of two billion people  online, connected.    	  2010年 ネット接続できて オンラインになっている人は たった20億人ほどです  
 By 2020,  Internet users.    	  2020年には インターネット利用者は  
 Three billion new minds  who have never been heard from before  are connecting to the global conversation.    	  20億人から50億人へと増加します これまで世界から尋ねられてこなかった 30億人の新しい頭脳が 世界で議論されていることや 話されてることに参加し始めます  
 What will these people want?    	  この人たちは何を欲しがるだろうか？  
 What will they consume? What will they desire?    	  何を消費して 何を望むだろうか？  
 And rather than having economic shutdown,  we're about to have the biggest economic injection ever.    	  経済が停止してしまうのではなく 経済に かつてない最大の注入が起ころうとしています  
 These people represent  tens of trillions of dollars  injected into the global economy.    	  グローバル経済にとって 数十兆ドルの注入を 意味することになるのです そして トライコーダーを使い  
 And they will get healthier  by using the Tricorder,  and they'll become better educated by using the Khan Academy,  and by literally being able to use 3D printing and infinite computing  [become] more productive than ever before.    	  これらの人々はより健康になり カーンアカデミーを使い よりよい教育を受け 3D プリンタ技術や 制限なくコンピューターが 使用できるようになって これまでにない より高い 生産性を持つようになるのです  
 So what could three billion rising,  healthy, educated, productive members of humanity  bring to us?    	  とすれば 健康で教養もあり 生産的になって昇り来る30億人は 何をもたらしてくれるでしょうか？  
 How about a set of voices that have never been heard from before.    	  これまで尋ねられなかった 人々の意見がもたらすものは？  
 What about giving the oppressed,  wherever they might be,  the voice to be heard and the voice to act  for the first time ever?    	  それが世界のどこだったにせよ これまで抑圧されてきた人たちが ここで初めて 発言する権利を持ち 行動する権利を持つとしたら？  
 What will these three billion people bring?    	  この30億の人々は 何をもたらすでしょうか？  
 What about contributions we can't even predict?    	  まったく予見できなかった貢献でしょうか？  
 The one thing I've learned at the X Prize  is that small teams  driven by their passion with a clear focus  can do extraordinary things,  things that large corporations and governments  could only do in the past.    	  X 賞でひとつ分かったことは 明確な目標の持って 情熱に 突き動かされている少人数のチームが 並はずれたことをできるということです これまでは大企業や政府でしか できなかったようなことを成し遂げます  
 Let me share and close with a story  that really got me excited.    	  最後に 私が本当に興奮した話を お話して締めくくりたいと思います  
 There is a program that some of you might have heard of.    	  ご存知かもしれませんが  
 It's a game called Foldit.    	  オンラインゲームで  
 It came out of the University of Washington in Seattle.    	  フォールド・イットというシアトルのワシントン大学が 考えられたゲームがあります  
 And this is a game  where individuals can actually take a sequence of amino acids  and figure out how the protein is going to fold.    	  このゲームは 個人個人が アミノ酸の配列を選んで タンパク質がどのように折りたたまれるのかを 解くというパズルゲームです タンパク質では折りたたまれ方によって  
 And how it folds dictates its structure and its functionality.    	  構造と機能を決定します  
 And it's very important for research in medicine.    	  これは医学の研究にとって 非常に重要なことです  
 And up until now, it's been a supercomputer problem.    	  これまでは この解析は スーパーコンピューターで解く程難解でした  
 And this game has been played  by university professors and so forth.    	  このゲームは大学教授や もろもろの人たちが遊んでいました  
 And it's literally, hundreds of thousands of people  came online and started playing it.    	  ほんとうに 何十万人もの人々が オンラインで 遊ぶようになっていきました  
 And it showed that, in fact, today,  the human pattern recognition machinery  is better at folding proteins than the best computers.    	  なにが起こったかというと 今のところ 最強のコンピュータよりも 人間のパターン認識力の方が 上手く折りたためると分かりました  
 And when these individuals went and looked  at who was the best protein folder in the world,  it wasn't an MIT professor,  it wasn't a CalTech student,  it was a person from England, from Manchester,  a woman who, during the day,  was an executive assistant at a rehab clinic  and, at night, was the world's best protein folder.    	  このオンライン解析に参加して タンパク質折りたたみで 誰が最強なのかを見ると MIT の教授でもなく カリフォルニア工科大生でもなく 英国のマンチェスターに住む女性とわかりました 昼間はリハビリ病院の 事務補佐として働いて 夜は タンパク質折りたたみで 世界最強なのでした  
 Ladies and gentlemen, what gives me tremendous confidence  in the future  is the fact that we are now more empowered as individuals  to take on the grand challenges of this planet.    	  皆さん よろしいでしょうか 私に 未来への とてつもない自信を与えてくれるのは 地球規模の課題に対して 個人としてでも取り組める力を 持つようになったという 事実があるからです  
 We have the tools with this exponential technology.    	  私たちには 飛躍的に進歩する新技術を 使った手段があります  
 We have the passion of the DIY innovator.    	  私たちには 発明家が持つ 自作してでも進める情熱があります  
 We have the capital of the techno-philanthropist.    	  私たちには 技術を活かした 博愛的事業を行う資源があります  
 And we have three billion new minds  coming online to work with us  to solve the grand challenges,  to do that which we must do.    	  さらに 私たちが解決しなければならない 地球規模の課題を 一緒に解くことができる 30億人の新しい頭脳が オンラインで繋がるようになります  
 We are living into extraordinary decades ahead.    	  とてつもない数十年が待っています  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 I'm going to speak  about a tiny, little idea.    	  これから お話しするのは とてもちいさなアイディアです  
 And this is about shifting baseline.    	  それは「ベースライン」の変化についてです  
 And because the idea can be explained in one minute,  I will tell you three stories before  to fill in the time.    	  でも このアイディアは 1分ほどで説明できてしまうので その前に 3つのお話で 時間を稼ごうと思います  
 And the first story  is about Charles Darwin, one of my heroes.    	  最初のお話は 私が憧れる チャールズ・ダーウィンについてです  
 And he was here, as you well know, in '35.    	  ご存知のように 1835年 彼はガラパゴス諸島を訪れました  
 And you'd think he was chasing finches,  but he wasn't.    	  フィンチばかり追っていたように 思われるかもしれませんが  
 He was actually collecting fish.    	  実際は魚類を収集していました  
 And he described one of them  as very "common."    	  そして ある魚を とても「一般的」な魚だと報告しました  
 This was the sailfin grouper.    	  ハタ科の セイルフィングルーパー です  
 A big fishery was run on it  until the '80s.    	  大規模な漁業による捕獲が 1980年代まで続いた結果 この魚は現在  
 Now the fish is on the IUCN Red List.    	  国際自然保護連合の レッドリストに載っています  
 Now this story,  we have heard it lots of times  on Galapagos and other places,  so there is nothing particular about it.    	  この様な話は 良く耳にします ガラパゴスに限らず 他の地域も同じです なにも特別な事では ありません  
 But the point is, we still come to Galapagos.    	  問題なのは 今もガラパゴスを訪れる人々が  
 We still think it is pristine.    	  いまだにそこを 昔の通りだと思っている点です  
 The brochures still say  it is untouched.    	  旅行案内のパンフレットでは いまだにガラパゴスを 「手つかずの地」 と宣伝します  
 So what happens here?    	  これはどういうことでしょうか  
 The second story, also to illustrate another concept,  is called shifting waistline.    	  2つ目のお話ですが この写真を見ると 私の「ウエストライン」も変化しています  
   Because I was there in '71,  studying a lagoon in West Africa.    	   1971年 私はアフリカ西部で ラグーンを研究していました  
 I was there because I grew up in Europe  and I wanted later to work in Africa.    	  ヨーロッパに育った私は アフリカで仕事をしたかったのです  
 And I thought I could blend in.    	  現地に溶け込めると 思っていましたが  
 And I got a big sunburn,  and I was convinced that I was really not from there.    	  しかしそこで ひどく日焼けしてしまい ここの生まれではないと 納得させられました  
 This was my first sunburn.    	  あんな日焼けは 初めてでした  
 And the lagoon  was surrounded by palm trees,  as you can see, and a few mangrove.    	  ラグーンは ヤシの木に囲まれていて マングローブも見えますね  
 And it had tilapia  about 20 centimeters,  a species of tilapia called blackchin tilapia.    	  20センチ程の ティラピアがいました ブラックチン・ティラピア です  
 And the fisheries for this tilapia  sustained lots of fish and they had a good time  and they earned more than average  in Ghana.    	  漁場はこの魚に恵まれ そこの漁師たちは この魚を獲ることで ガーナの平均収入よりも 稼いでいました  
 When I went there 27 years later,  the fish had shrunk to half of their size.    	  27年後にそこを訪れると 魚の大きさは 半分以下に縮んでいました  
 They were maturing at five centimeters.    	  成魚で5センチほどでした  
 They had been pushed genetically.    	  遺伝的に 圧迫されたのです  
 There were still fishes.    	  まだ漁師もいて  
 They were still kind of happy.    	  とりあえず幸せのようでしたし  
 And the fish also were happy to be there.    	  魚もそこにいて幸せのようでした  
 So nothing has changed,  but everything has changed.    	  何も 変わらないようで 全てが変わっていました  
 My third little story  is that I was an accomplice  in the introduction of trawling  in Southeast Asia.    	  3つ目のお話は 私も加担した 底引き網漁業の 東南アジアへの導入の話です  
 In the '70s -- well, beginning in the '60s --  Europe did lots of development projects.    	  1970年代に - 開始は60年代でしたが - ヨーロッパは 多くの開発事業を行いました  
 Fish development  meant imposing on countries  that had already 100,000 fishers  to impose on them industrial fishing.    	  「漁業開発」というのは 実際「押し付け」です 数十万人もの漁師がいる国に 産業的な漁業を押し付けます  
 And this boat, quite ugly,  is called the Mutiara 4.    	  調査船がまた とても醜いもので ムティアラ４号という船で  
 And I went sailing on it,  and we did surveys  throughout the southern South China sea  and especially the Java Sea.    	  これに乗って 調査を行いました 南シナ海南部から 特に ジャワ海が中心でした 当時は 海から引き上げたものが  
 And what we caught, we didn't have words for it.    	  何なのか わかっていませんでした  
 What we caught, I know now,  is the bottom of the sea.    	  引き上げたのは 今ならわかるのですが 海の底だったのです  
 And 90 percent of our catch  were sponges,  other animals that are fixed on the bottom.    	  引き上げた内の 90％は海綿で 残りは 海底に着生している生物でした  
 And actually most of the fish,  they are a little spot on the debris,  the piles of debris, were coral reef fish.    	  海底の堆積物の中に ほんの少しだけ サンゴ礁に住む魚がいました  
 Essentially the bottom of the sea came onto the deck  and then was thrown down.    	  海の底を 甲板に引き上げては また投げ下ろしました  
 And these pictures are extraordinary  because this transition is very rapid.    	  こちらの写真は とても希少なものです ごく短期間で 海が変化してしまったからです  
 Within a year, you do a survey  and then commercial fishing begins.    	  調査が始まってから １年も待たずに 商業的な漁業が始まり  
 The bottom is transformed  from, in this case, a hard bottom or soft coral  into a muddy mess.    	  海底の状況は一変しました しっかりした海底や 柔らかい珊瑚から 濁ったぐちゃぐちゃの状態に です  
 This is a dead turtle.    	  これは死んだウミガメですね  
 They were not eaten, they were thrown away because they were dead.    	  死後に捕獲されたため 食べられず 捨てられました  
 And one time we caught a live one.    	  あるとき１匹のウミガメが 生きたまま捕獲されました  
 It was not drowned yet.    	  今度は食べられるので 殺す事になりました  
 And then they wanted to kill it because it was good to eat.    	  このぐちゃぐちゃの海底から 引き上げられたものは  
 This mountain of debris  is actually collected by fishers  into an area that's never been fished.    	  漁師により 海から引き上げられます 初めて漁が行われる 場所に行くたびにです  
 But it's not documented.    	  でも こういう事は記録されません  
 We transform the world,  but we don't remember it.    	  人間は 世界を 変質させつつあるのに その事を記憶していません  
 We adjust our baseline  to the new level,  and we don't recall what was there.    	  いつも 物事のベースラインを 新しい水準に調整して 以前の水準を 思い出す事はありません  
 If you generalize this,  something like this happens.    	  これを模式化すると このようになります  
 You have on the y axis some good thing:  biodiversity, numbers of orca,  the greenness of your country, the water supply.    	  縦軸は 何か望ましい事の値です 生物の多様性　オルカの生息数 国々の緑地面積　水の供給率  
 And over time it changes --  because people do things, or naturally.    	  これらが 時間の経過によって 人為的に あるいは自然に 変化するのです  
 Every generation  will use the images  that they got at the beginning of their conscious lives  as a standard  and will extrapolate forward.    	  どんな世代であっても 自分たちが物心ついた時点が あたりまえの状態だという イメージを持っていて それを基準に未来を推定します  
 And the difference then,  they perceive as a loss.    	  現在と未来の状態に差があれば 失われたのだ とわかりますが  
 But they don't perceive what happened before as a loss.    	  現在と過去との違いはわかりません  
 You can have a succession of changes.    	  こうしてベースラインが変化し続ければ  
 At the end you want to sustain  miserable leftovers.    	  最終的には わずかに残されたものを 保護することになるでしょう  
 And that, to a large extent, is what we want to do now.    	  それが大体 今 行われていることです  
 We want to sustain things that are gone  or things that are not the way they were.    	  ほとんど絶滅したものや 本来の姿ではないものを 維持しようとしています  
 Now one should think  this problem affected people  certainly when in predatory societies,  they killed animals  and they didn't know they had done so  after a few generations. Because, obviously,  an animal that is very abundant,  before it gets extinct,  it becomes rare.    	  ここで考えるべきなのは これが人間にも確実に影響する事です 過去の狩猟社会では 動物を獲って生活していました 数世代もすると それが行われていた事は 忘れられます なぜなら 当たり前ですが とても数の多かった動物でも 絶滅寸前には とても数が減っている訳ですね  
 So you don't lose abundant animals.    	  つまり 数の多い動物は絶滅しません  
 You always lose rare animals.    	  常に 数の少ない動物が失われるのです  
 And therefore they're not perceived  as a big loss.    	  そのため それが 大きな喪失だとは思われません  
 Over time,  we concentrate on large animals,  and in a sea that means the big fish.    	  時間の経過を 大きな動物に注目してたどると 海の場合は 巨大な魚のことですが  
 They become rarer because we fish them.    	  漁業の結果 以前よりも稀な生物になってしまいました  
 Over time we have a few fish left  and we think this is the baseline.    	  時間の経過とともに 数が減り それがベースラインだと思ってしまいます  
 And the question is,  why do people accept this?    	  では なぜ それが受け入れられるのでしょうか  
 Well because they don't know that it was different.    	  それは 変化について知らないから です  
 And in fact, lots of people, scientists,  will contest that it was really different.    	  実際に 多くの人々 特に学者が 変化の存在に  
 And they will contest this  because the evidence  presented in an earlier mode  is not in the way  they would like the evidence presented.    	  異議を唱えています なぜかというと 昔の海に関する証拠は 現在 学者が欲しがる形では 残っていないからです  
 For example,  the anecdote that some present,  as Captain so-and-so  observed lots of fish in this area  or is usually not utilized by fishery scientists,  because it's not "scientific."    	  例えば 昔 なにがし船長が ある海域で 巨大な魚群を見た という 逸話があったとしても その逸話は魚類学者には ほとんど役に立てられません それが「非科学的」だからです  
 So you have a situation  where people don't know the past,  even though we live in literate societies,  because they don't trust  the sources of the past.    	  こうしてわれわれは 文字を持っていながら 過去を知らない状況に陥っています 過去に信頼を 置くことができないのです  
 And hence, the enormous role  that a marine protected area can play.    	  だからこそ 海洋保護地域が 大きな役割を果たすでしょう  
 Because with marine protected areas,  we actually recreate the past.    	  海洋保護区では 昔の海を取り戻そうとしています  
 We recreate the past that people cannot conceive  because the baseline has shifted  and is extremely low.    	  ベースラインが下がった 現在からは 想像もできないような 過去を再構築するのです  
 That is for people  who can see a marine protected area  and who can benefit  from the insight that it provides,  which enables them to reset their baseline.    	  これは 海洋保護区を訪れる事が出来て そこから ベースラインを リセットできるだけの 見識を得られる人々の場合ですね  
 How about the people who can't do that  because they have no access --  the people in the Midwest for example?    	  それが出来ない場合は どうか 例えば海から遠く離れた アメリカ中西部は どうでしょう  
 There I think  that the arts and film  can perhaps fill the gap,  and simulation.    	  そこでは 私が思うに 芸術や映画が ギャップを埋めるでしょう そして シミュレーションです  
 This is a simulation of Chesapeake Bay.    	  これはアメリカのチェサピーク湾の シミュレーションです  
 There were gray whales in Chesapeake Bay a long time ago --  500 years ago.    	  大昔 コククジラが生息していました 500年前です  
 And you will have noticed that the hues and tones  are like "Avatar."    	  画像の 色相や色合いが 映画『アバター』 に似ていますね  
   And if you think about "Avatar,"  if you think of why people were so touched by it --  never mind the Pocahontas story --  why so touched by the imagery?    	   『アバター』はなぜ あんなに感動的だったのか ポカホンタスそのままのストーリーは置くとして なぜ あの描写に感動させられるのか  
 Because it evokes something that in a sense has been lost.    	  それは 失われてしまった何かが  
 And so my recommendation,  it's the only one I will provide,  is for Cameron to do "Avatar II" underwater.    	  呼び覚まされるからです 私が１つだけ提案するのは 監督のキャメロンに 『アバター２』では 海中を舞台にすべきだと言う事です  
 Thank you very much.    	  ありがとうございました  
 Hi. I'm Kevin Allocca, I'm the trends manager at YouTube,  and I professionally watch YouTube videos.    	  こんにちは YouTubeトレンドマネージャのケヴィン・アロッカです 仕事としてYouTubeビデオを—  
 It's true.    	  見ています いいでしょう？  
 So we're going to talk a little bit today about how videos go viral  and then why that even matters.    	  今日はビデオがバイラルに人気になる仕組みと それがなぜ重要なことなのかを お話しします  
 We all want to be stars --  celebrities, singers, comedians --  and when I was younger, that seemed so very, very hard to do.    	  みんなスターになりたいと思っています 有名人に 歌手に コメディアン 私が子どもの頃は それはすごく難しいことに思えました  
 But now Web video has made it  so that any of us or any of the creative things that we do  in a part of our world's culture.    	  しかし今ではWebビデオを通じて 誰だろうと どんな作品だろうと 世界の文化の一部として  
 Any one of you could be famous on the Internet  by next Saturday.    	  すごく有名になり得るのです この場の誰かだって 来週の土曜までに  
 But there are over 48 hours of video uploaded to YouTube  every minute.    	  ネット上の有名人になっているかもしれません そうは言っても YouTubeにアップされるビデオは毎分48時間分にもなります そうは言っても YouTubeにアップされるビデオは毎分48時間分にもなります  
 And of that, only a tiny percentage  ever goes viral and gets tons of views and becomes a cultural moment.    	  その中で話題になり たくさんの人に見られ 時の顔になるのはごく一部です  
 So how does it happen?    	  どうやってそのようなことが起きるのか？  
 Three things:  tastemakers, communities of participation  and unexpectedness.    	  ３つの要素があると思います 流行仕掛け人 作品をめぐるコミュニティ 予想外さです 流行仕掛け人 作品をめぐるコミュニティ 予想外さです  
 All right, let's go.    	  見ていきましょう  
  Bear Vasquez: Oh, my God. Oh, my God.    	   わわわ すごい すご〜い  
 Oh, my God!    	  わはっ すごぉ〜い  
 Wooo!    	  ひゃあ〜  
 Ohhhhh, wowwww!    	  おぉぉ わ〜おっ！  
 KA: Last year, Bear Vasquez posted this video  that he had shot outside his home in Yosemite National Park.    	  去年ベア・ヴァスケズが ヨセミテ国立公園内の家から撮ったこのビデオを投稿し  
 In 2010, it was viewed 23 million times.    	  2010年だけで２千３百万回も見られました  
   This is a chart of what it looked like  when it first became popular last summer.    	   これは去年の夏 人気になった頃の １日あたりの視聴回数です  
 But he didn't actually set out to make a viral video, Bear.    	  でも彼は別に 人気ビデオを作ろうとしたわけではありません  
 He just wanted to share a rainbow.    	  ただ虹を見せたいと思っただけです  
 Because that's what you do when your name is Yosemite Mountain Bear.    	  それが「ヨセミテの山熊」と呼ばれる男の  
   And he had posted lots of nature videos in fact.    	  することだからです  実際 彼は自然のビデオをたくさん投稿しています  
 And this video had actually been posted  all the way back in January.    	  でもこのビデオが投稿されたのは 人気になるずっと前の１月でした  
 So what happened here?    	  ここでいったい何があったのでしょう？  
 Jimmy Kimmel actually.    	  答えはジミー・キメルです  
 Jimmy Kimmel posted this tweet  that would eventually propel the video to be as popular as it would become.    	  ジミー・キメルがツイートして それがこのビデオの人気に火を付けたのです  
 Because tastemakers like Jimmy Kimmel  introduce us to new and interesting things  and bring them to a larger audience.    	  ジミー・キメルのような流行仕掛け人が 新しく面白いものを紹介し 多くの人の目に触れるようにするのです  
  Rebecca Black: ♫ It's Friday, Friday. Gotta get down on Friday. ♫  ♫ Everybody's looking forward to the weekend, weekend. ♫  ♫ Friday, Friday. Gettin' down on Friday. ♫  KA: So you didn't think that we could actually have this conversation  without talking about this video I hope.    	   ♫ 金曜日だ 金曜日だ 金曜日を楽しまなくっちゃ ♫ みんな楽しみにしている週末だ 週末だ ♫ 金曜日だ 金曜日だ 金曜日を楽しまなくっちゃ このビデオを抜きにして バイラルビデオの話は できないでしょう  
 Rebecca Black's "Friday" is one of the most popular videos of the year.    	  レベッカ・ブラックの「金曜日」は 今年最も流行った  
 It's been seen nearly 200 million times this year.    	  ビデオの１つで ２億回近く再生されています  
 This is a chart of what it looked like.    	  こちらは１日あたりの視聴回数です  
 And similar to "Double Rainbow,"  it seems to have just sprouted up out of nowhere.    	  「二重の虹」と同様に どこからともなく現れたように見えます  
 So what happened on this day?    	  この日にいったい何があったのでしょう？  
 Well it was a Friday, this is true.    	  確かにその日は金曜でした  
 And if you're wondering about those other spikes, those are also Fridays.    	  ついでに言うと この飛び出した部分もみんな金曜日です  
   But what about this day,  this one particular Friday?    	   しかし この最初の金曜日に いったい何があったんでしょう？  
 Well Tosh.0 picked it up, a lot of blogs starting writing about.    	  Tosh.0が取り上げ 多くのブログが話題にしたのです  
 Michael J. Nelson from Mystery Science Theater  was one of the first people to post a joke about the video on Twitter.    	  MST3Kのマイケル・J・ネルソンは このビデオに対する冗談をツイートした最初の１人です  
 But what's important is that an individual or a group of tastemakers  took a point of view  and they shared that with a larger audience, accelerating the process.    	  ここで重要なのは １人あるいは複数の 流行仕掛け人が ある見解を示して それを多くの人に伝え バイラルプロセスを加速しているということです  
 And so then this community formed  of people who shared this big inside joke  and they started talking about it and doing things with it.    	  そうやって その内輪ネタを共有する コミュニティが出来上がり みんなそれを話題にし それで何かをやり始めるのです  
 And now there are 10,000 parodies of "Friday" on YouTube.    	  今やYouTubeには「金曜日」のパロディが１万本以上あります  
 Even in the first seven days,  there was one parody for every other day of the week.    	  一週間後にはもう 各曜日のパロディが出そろっていました  
   Unlike the one-way entertainment of the 20th century,  this community participation  is how we become a part of the phenomenon --  either by spreading it or by doing something new with it.    	   20世紀の一方通行のメディアとは違い コミュニティとの関わりというのが この現象の中で重要な役割を果たしています 広める人もいれば それで何かをする人もいます  
   So "Nyan Cat" is a looped animation  with looped music.    	   「ニャンキャット」はループ音楽の付いた ループアニメーションです  
 It's this, just like this.    	  こんな感じの  
 It's been viewed nearly 50 million times this year.    	  今年５千万回近く見られました  
 And if you think that that is weird,  you should know that there is a three-hour version of this  that's been viewed four million times.    	  「それは変だ」と思うなら 知っておくべきです これには３時間バージョンもあって ４百万回も見られているということを  
   Even cats were watching this video.    	   猫でさえこのビデオを見ているのです  
   Cats were watching other cats watch this video.    	   このビデオを見ている猫を見ている猫までいます  
   But what's important here  is the creativity that it inspired  amongst this techie, geeky Internet culture.    	   ここで大事なのは 技術的でオタクなネット文化の中で それがみんなのクリエイティビティを引き出していることです  
 There were remixes.    	  リミックスがたくさんあります  
   Someone made an old timey version.    	   レトロバージョンもあります  
   And then it went international.    	   それから各国版も  
   An entire remix community sprouted up  that brought it from being just a stupid joke  to something that we can all actually be a part of.    	   リミックスするコミュニティが広がって 単なるバカな冗談を みんなが参加できるものへと 変えたのです  
 Because we don't just enjoy now,  we participate.    	  今や私たちは見て楽しむだけでなく 参加もできるからです  
 And who could have predicted any of this?    	  誰がこんなことを予想できたでしょう？  
 Who could have predicted "Double Rainbow" or Rebecca Black  or "Nyan Cat?"    	  「二重の虹」やレベッカ・ブラックや 「ニャンキャット」みたいなものを？  
 What scripts could you have written  that would have contained this in it?    	  こんなものを生み出す どんな筋書きが書けたでしょう？  
 In a world where over two days of video  get uploaded every minute,  only that which is truly unique and unexpected  can stand out in the way that these things have.    	  １分ごとに２日相当のビデオが アップロードされている今日 多くの人の目を引くことができるのは 本当にユニークで予想外なものだけです  
 When a friend of mine told me that I needed to see this great video  about a guy protesting bicycle fines in New York City,  I admit I wasn't very interested.    	  ニューヨーク市の自転車への罰金に抗議している男の すごいビデオがあるぞと 最初友達から聞いたとき 正直そんなに興味を持ちませんでした  
  Casey Niestat: So I got a ticket for not riding in the bike lane,  but often there are obstructions  that keep you from properly riding in the bike lane.    	   自転車レーン外を走ったと 違反チケットを切られましたが 自転車レーンにはよく障害物があって ちゃんと走れないのです  
   KA: By being totally surprising and humorous,  Casey Niestat got his funny idea and point  seen five million times.    	   まったく予想外でユーモラスな ケイシー・ナイスタットは 面白いことを思いついて ５百万回も見られることになりました  
 And so this approach holds  for anything new that we do creatively.    	  このアプローチは 私たちが創意を持ってやる 新しいことには 何にでも適用できます  
 And so it all brings us  to one big question ...    	  そしてこれらのことは １つの大きな疑問に繋がります･･･  
  Bear Vasquez: What does this mean?    	   これはどんな意味があるんだろう？  
 Ohhhh.    	  ああ〜  
   KA: What does it mean?    	   どんな意味があるんだろう？  
 Tastemakers, creative participating communities,  complete unexpectedness,  these are characteristics of a new kind of media and a new kind of culture  where anyone has access  and the audience defines the popularity.    	  流行仕掛け人 作品をめぐる創意あるコミュニティ 全くの予想外さ これらが新しい種類のメデイアと文化の特徴であり それは誰でも手が届くもので 人気は視聴者が決めるのです  
 I mean, as mentioned earlier,  one of the biggest stars in the world right now, Justin Bieber,  got his start on YouTube.    	  誰かが言ったように 現在世界最大のスターとも言えるジャスティン・ビーバーは 誰かが言ったように 現在世界最大のスターとも言えるジャスティン・ビーバーは YouTubeから出発したのです  
 No one has to green-light your idea.    	  アイデアにストップをかける人は誰もいません  
 And we all now feel some ownership  in our own pop culture.    	  私たち誰もがポップカルチャーを 分有していると感じています  
 And these are not characteristics of old media,  and they're barely true of the media of today,  but they will define the entertainment of the future.    	  古いメディアにはそういう性質はなく 今日のメデイアに かろうじて備わっている性質ですが これは間違いなく未来のエンターテインメントを決める要素になるでしょう これは間違いなく未来のエンターテインメントを決める要素になるでしょう  
 Thank you.     	  ありがとうございました   
 How can I speak in 10 minutes  about the bonds of women over three generations,  about how the astonishing strength of those bonds  took hold in the life of a four-year-old girl  huddled with her young sister,  her mother and her grandmother  for five days and nights  in a small boat in the China Sea  more than 30 years ago,  bonds that took hold in the life of that small girl    	  どうしたら10分で話すことができるでしょう 三代に渡る女性の絆の物語を？ その絆の驚くほどの力は ４歳の女の子の命をしっかりと掴んで 放しませんでした 女の子が 妹や母や祖母と 小さなボートに身を寄せ合い ５昼夜をかけて 南シナ海を越えたのは 30年以上も昔のことでした その絆は女の子の命を  
 and never let go --  that small girl now living in San Francisco  and speaking to you today?    	  しっかりと掴んで 決して放しませんでした その女の子が今ではサンフランシスコに住み 今日皆さんの前で話しているのです  
 This is not a finished story.    	  この物語は未完の物語です  
 It is a jigsaw puzzle still being put together.    	  今も組み立て途中のジグソーパズルです  
 Let me tell you about some of the pieces.    	  そのピースのいくつかをご紹介していきます  
 Imagine the first piece:  a man burning his life's work.    	  まず最初のピースです 生涯の作品を燃やしている男の姿を想像して下さい  
 He is a poet, a playwright,  a man whose whole life  had been balanced on the single hope  of his country's unity and freedom.    	  詩人で 劇作家だった— その男の人生は全て 祖国の統一と自由という 唯一の希望に支えられていました  
 Imagine him as the communists enter Saigon, confronting the fact  that his life had been a complete waste.    	  共産党がサイゴンに入城したときの様子を想像してください 自分の人生の全てが無駄だった— という現実に直面したのです  
 Words, for so long his friends, now mocked him.    	  長年にわたり友だと思っていた「言葉」に傷つけられ  
 He retreated into silence.    	  沈黙の中に閉じこもり  
 He died broken by history.    	  歴史に打ち負かされ 亡くなりました  
 He is my grandfather.    	  その男が私の祖父です  
 I never knew him in real life.    	  生きている祖父に接したことはありませんが  
 But our lives are much more than our memories.    	  人生には単なる記憶以上の意味があります  
 My grandmother never let me forget his life.    	  祖母は祖父の人生を私が決して忘れることのないようにしました  
 My duty was not to allow it to have been in vain,  and my lesson was to learn  that, yes, history tried to crush us,  but we endured.    	  私の務めは祖父の人生を無駄にしないことでした 私にとっての教訓は 歴史が押しつぶそうとしても 私たちは生き延びたということ  
 The next piece of the jigsaw  is of a boat in the early dawn  slipping silently out to sea.    	  次のパズルのピースは 明け方の早い時間に 静かに海に出て行くボートです  
 My mother, Mai, was 18  when her father died --  already in an arranged marriage,  already with two small girls.    	  母のマイは18歳のときに 父を亡くし— そのときすでに 決められた相手と結婚して ふたりの小さな娘を授かっていました  
 For her, life had distilled itself into one task:  the escape of her family  and a new life in Australia.    	  母の使命は煎じ詰めれば一つでした 家族とともに脱出して オーストラリアで新しい生活を築くことです  
 It was inconceivable to her  that she would not succeed.    	  それがうまく行かないなどとは 彼女は夢にも考えませんでした  
 So after a four-year saga that defies fiction,  a boat slipped out to sea  disguised as a fishing vessel.    	  小説よりも壮絶な激動の4年の後に 漁船を装ったボートは ひっそりと海に滑り出しました  
 All the adults knew the risks.    	  どんなに危険なことか大人達は知っていました  
 The greatest fear was of pirates,  rape and death.    	  恐れていたのは海賊と レイプと死でした  
 Like most adults on the boat,  my mother carried a small bottle of poison.    	  乗船したほとんどの大人たちと同様に 母は毒の小瓶を携行していました  
 If we were captured, first my sister and I,  then she and my grandmother would drink.    	  捕われるようなことがあったら まず私と妹が そして母と祖母が毒薬を飲む手筈でした  
 My first memories are from the boat --  the steady beat of the engine,  the bow dipping into each wave,  the vast and empty horizon.    	  私の最初の記憶はボートの中です エンジンの単調な音と 波にぶつかる舳先や 巨大で何も見えない水平線を覚えています  
 I don't remember the pirates who came many times,  but were bluffed by the bravado  of the men on our boat,  or the engine dying  and failing to start for six hours.    	  何度も海賊に出くわすたびに 船の男達のはったりで切り抜けたことは 覚えていません エンジンが止まってしまい ６時間も始動しなかったことも覚えていません  
 But I do remember the lights on the oil rig  off the Malaysian coast  and the young man who collapsed and died,  the journey's end too much for him,  and the first apple I tasted,  given to me by the men on the rig.    	  でもマレーシア沿岸の油田の灯りは よく覚えています 旅の終わりに若い男の人が倒れて亡くなりました かわいそうな旅の終わり方でした 油田の人にもらったリンゴを 最初に口にしたときの味は忘れません  
 No apple has ever tasted the same.    	  リンゴの味があんな風に感じられたことは二度とありません  
 After three months in a refugee camp,  we landed in Melbourne.    	  難民キャンプで３ヶ月過ごした後 私たちはメルボルンに到着しました  
 And the next piece of the jigsaw  is about four women across three generations  shaping a new life together.    	  パズルの次のピースは 三代の女性が４人で 築き始めた新しい生活です  
 We settled in Footscray,  a working-class suburb  whose demographic is layers of immigrants.    	  私たちはフッツクレーに住みました 労働者の住むような郊外の町に 移民が多く集まっていました  
 Unlike the settled middle-class suburbs,  there was no sense of entitlement in Footscray.    	  その存在すら知らなかった 中流の暮らす落ち着いた郊外とは異質で 何であれ保障されることは考られない地域でした  
 The smells from shop doors were from the rest of the world.    	  店ごとにドアを開くと異国の香りが漂い  
 And the snippets of halting English  were exchanged between people  who had one thing in common,  they were starting again.    	  人々はカタコトの英語で やりとりします 再出発の最中だという一点だけが 皆に共通していました  
 My mother worked on farms,  then on a car assembly line,  working six days, double shifts.    	  母は農場で働きました それから車の組み立てラインで 週に六日の二交代勤務で働きました  
 Somehow she found time to study English  and gain IT qualifications.    	  母は英語を勉強する時間を作り出し IT の資格も取得しました  
 We were poor.    	  私たちは貧しかったので  
 All the dollars were allocated  and extra tuition in English and mathematics  was budgeted for  regardless of what missed out,  which was usually new clothes;  they were always secondhand.    	  お金の使い道は全て決まっていました 英語と数学の課外講座の費用だけは 他の何を諦めても 確保されていました 諦めたのはたいてい新しい服だったので いつも古着を着ていました  
 Two pairs of stockings for school,  each to hide the holes in the other.    	  学校に行くときは靴下を二重にして履きます 穴が見えなくなるように  
 A school uniform down to the ankles,  because it had to last for six years.    	  制服はくるぶしまで届く長さでした ６年間持たせなければならなかったからです  
 And there were rare but searing chants of "slit-eye"  and the occasional graffiti:  "Asian, go home."    	  時には 「細目」という 差別的な言葉を投げつけられたり 「アジア人は帰れ」という 落書きも目にしました  
 Go home to where?    	  「どこに帰れって言うの？」  
 Something stiffened inside me.    	  心の奥で何かが固まるのを感じました  
 There was a gathering of resolve  and a quiet voice saying, "I will bypass you."    	  私は心の中で静かに誓いました 「相手になんかしないから」と  
 My mother, my sister and I  slept in the same bed.    	  母と妹と私は 同じベッドで寝ていました  
 My mother was exhausted each night,  but we told one another about our day  and listened to the movements  of my grandmother around the house.    	  母は毎晩疲れ切っていましたが みんなで交互に一日の話をしたり 祖母が家の中を動き回る音に 耳を澄ませたりしました  
 My mother suffered from nightmares  all about the boat.    	  母はいつも ボートの悪夢に悩まされていました  
 And my job was to stay awake until her nightmares came  so I could wake her.    	  私の役目は起きていて母が悪夢に襲われたら 起こしてあげることでした  
 She opened a computer store  then studied to be a beautician  and opened another business.    	  母はコンピュータの店を開き その後 美容師になる勉強をして 美容室も開きました  
 And the women came with their stories  about men who could not make the transition,  angry and inflexible,  and troubled children caught between two worlds.    	  お客の女性たちから 変われない男たちが 腹ばかり立てて 融通が利かないという話や 子どもたちが二つの世界の板挟みだという話を聞きました  
 Grants and sponsors were sought.    	  助成金や支援者を募って  
 Centers were established.    	  地域センターが設立されました  
 I lived in parallel worlds.    	  私は並行する二つの世界の住人でした  
 In one, I was the classic Asian student, relentless in the demands that I made on myself.    	  一つの世界では アジア系の学生の伝統に沿って  
 In the other, I was enmeshed in lives that were precarious,  tragically scarred by violence,  drug abuse and isolation.    	  自分にとてつもなく高い課題を課していました 別の世界では 不安定な生活の中で 暴力と薬物中毒と孤独に—  
 But so many over the years were helped.    	  怯えて悲惨に暮らす仲間と繋がっていました そんな仲間の多くを数年かけて救い出し  
 And for that work, when I was a final year law student,  I was chosen as the young Australian of the year.    	  その功績によって 法学部の最終学年のときに オーストリア青年賞に選出されました  
 And I was catapulted from one piece of the jigsaw to another,  and their edges didn't fit.    	  こうして私はジグソーパズルの一箇所から 別な箇所へと放り出されましたが  
 Tan Le, anonymous Footscray resident,  was now Tan Le, refugee and social activist,  invited to speak in venues she had never heard of  and into homes whose existence  she could never have imagined.    	  ピタリとは嵌りませんでした フッツクレーで無名だったタン・レイは 今や難民にして活動家のタン・レイとなり あちらこちらから依頼を受けて 聞いたこともなかったホールや 夢にも見ないような豪邸でスピーチしました  
 I didn't know the protocols.    	  私は礼儀作法を知りませんでした  
 I didn't know how to use the cutlery.    	  テーブルマナーも知りませんでした  
 I didn't know how to talk about wine.    	  ワインについて何を語ればよいか知りませんでした  
 I didn't know how to talk about anything.    	  何についてであれ どう話すべきか知りませんでした  
 I wanted to retreat to the routines and comfort  of life in an unsung suburb --  a grandmother, a mother and two daughters  ending each day as they had for almost 20 years,  telling one another the story of their day  and falling asleep,  the three of us still in the same bed.    	  日常の居心地よさに逃げ戻りたいと願いました 誰かの話題に上ることもなく 祖母と母と娘二人が郊外で 二十年近く暮らしてきた日々に帰りたかったのです みんなでお互いに その日のできごとを話したら 三人一緒に同じベッドで眠る日々です  
 I told my mother I couldn't do it.    	  母にもう続けられないと訴えました  
 She reminded me that I was now the same age she had been  when we boarded the boat.    	  あなたの年頃には皆であのボートに乗った— ということを母は私に思いださせました  
 No had never been an option.    	  ノーという選択肢はないのです  
 "Just do it," she said,  "and don't be what you're not."    	  「やりなさい」と母は言いました 「ただ ありのままの自分でいなさい」  
 So I spoke out on youth unemployment and education  and the neglect of the marginalized and the disenfranchised.    	  そこで私は若者の失業と教育について語り 公民権もなく見過ごされた人々の声を代弁しました  
 And the more candidly I spoke,  the more I was asked to speak.    	  私がありのままの話をすると 講演の依頼はますます増えました  
 I met people from all walks of life,  so many of them doing the thing they loved,  living on the frontiers of possibility.    	  あらゆる地位の人々と出会いました 多くの人たちは自分の好きなことをやって 可能性の限界まで追求していました  
 And even though I finished my degree,  I realized I could not settle into a career in law.    	  法律の学位を取得したものの それを仕事にする気持ちが無くなりました  
 There had to be another piece of the jigsaw.    	  さらに別のピースが必要になったのです  
 And I realized at the same time  that it is okay to be an outsider,  a recent arrival,  new on the scene --  and not just okay,  but something to be thankful for,  perhaps a gift from the boat.    	  また同時に気づいたことがありました よそ者でも別にいいのだと 最近やってきたばかりの 新参者であっても 全く問題なく それどころか それは感謝すべきことでした あのボートからの贈り物だったのかもしれません  
 Because being an insider  can so easily mean collapsing the horizons,  can so easily mean  accepting the presumptions of your province.    	  なぜなら内輪の人間だと 視野が狭まりやすく また容易に 固定観念に縛られてしまうのです  
 I have stepped outside my comfort zone enough now  to know that, yes, the world does fall apart,  but not in the way that you fear.    	  私はすでに安全地帯の外に飛び出していて 世界が崩壊することだって 知っています 崩壊してもみなさんが恐れるようなことはありません  
 Possibilities that would not have been allowed  were outrageously encouraged.    	  それまで許されていなかった可能性を 徹底的に追求できるようになるのです  
 There was an energy there,  an implacable optimism,  a strange mixture of humility and daring.    	  そこにはエネルギーがあり へこたれない楽観主義があり 謙虚さと大胆さが奇妙に混ざり合っています  
 So I followed my hunches.    	  そこで私は自分の直感に従いました  
 I gathered around me a small team of people  for whom the label "It can't be done"  was an irresistible challenge.    	  自分の周りに小さなチームを作りました 「それは無理だ」と言われると チャレンジせずにはいられないメンバーを集めたチームです  
 For a year we were penniless.    	  一年間は一文なしでしたが  
 At the end of each day, I made a huge pot of soup  which we all shared.    	  毎日夜には大鍋にスープを作り みんなで分け合いました  
 We worked well into each night.    	  毎晩遅くまで仕事を続けました  
 Most of our ideas were crazy,  but a few were brilliant,  and we broke through.    	  アイデアの大半はとんでもないものでしたが 優れたアイデアも幾つかあって 大きな展開をもたらしました  
 I made the decision to move to the U.S.    	  一度アメリカを訪れただけで  
 after only one trip.    	  移住する決心をしました  
 My hunches again.    	  また直感に従ったのです  
 Three months later I had relocated,  and the adventure has continued.    	  ３ヶ月後には引越を済ませ まだまだ挑戦は続いていきます  
 Before I close though,  let me tell you about my grandmother.    	  私の話の最後に 祖母の話をさせて下さい  
 She grew up at a time  when Confucianism was the social norm  and the local Mandarin was the person who mattered.    	  祖母が育った時代には 儒教が社会の規範でした 地元では上級官僚が一番偉く  
 Life hadn't changed for centuries.    	  暮らしは何世紀も変わらないものでした  
 Her father died soon after she was born.    	  祖母は生まれてすぐに父を亡くし  
 Her mother raised her alone.    	  母親一人の手で育てられました  
 At 17 she became the second wife  of a Mandarin whose mother beat her.    	  17の時には上級官僚の第二婦人になりましたが 姑は彼女に暴力をふるいました  
 With no support from her husband,  she caused a sensation by taking him to court  and prosecuting her own case,  and a far greater sensation when she won.    	  夫はまったく助けてくれなかったので 祖母は裁判沙汰にして 夫を法廷に引きずり出し ちょっとした騒動になりました 彼女が勝訴した時には さらに大きな騒動になりました  
     "It can't be done" was shown to be wrong.    	    「それは無理だ」というのが間違いなことを示したのです  
 I was taking a shower in a hotel room in Sydney  600 miles away in Melbourne.    	  私がシドニーのホテルでシャワーを浴びていたときに 1000キロ離れたメルボルンで 祖母は亡くなりました  
 I looked through the shower screen  and saw her standing on the other side.    	  シャワーカーテンごしに 祖母が立っているのが見えたので  
 I knew she had come to say goodbye.    	  お別れにきたのだと気づきました  
 My mother phoned minutes later.    	  間もなく母から電話がありました  
 A few days later,  we went to a Buddhist temple in Footscray  and sat around her casket.    	  数日後に フッツクレーの仏教のお寺に 皆で集まって棺の周りに座って  
 We told her stories  and assured her that we were still with her.    	  祖母の思い出を語り合って 祖母はずっと皆と一緒にいるのだと確かめました  
 At midnight the monk came  and told us he had to close the casket.    	  真夜中に僧侶が来て 棺に蓋をしなければならないと言いました  
 My mother asked us to feel her hand.    	  母はみんなに祖母の手に触ってごらんと言い  
 She asked the monk,  "Why is it that her hand is so warm  and the rest of her is so cold?"    	  僧侶に尋ねました 「なぜこんなに手が暖かいんでしょう 体はこんなに冷たいというのに」  
 "Because you have been holding it since this morning," he said.    	  「今朝からずっと手を握っておられたからでしょう  
 "You have not let it go."    	  お名残惜しいのは分かりますが」と僧侶は答えました  
 If there is a sinew in our family,  it runs through the women.    	  私の家族の中に力があるとすれば それは女たちの中を流れています  
 Given who we were and how life had shaped us,  we can now see  that the men who might have come into our lives  would have thwarted us.    	  私たちが何者で人生にどう左右されてきたかを踏まえて 今わかることがあります 私たちの人生に関わった男たちの中には 私たちを妨げようとした者もいました  
 Defeat would have come too easily.    	  私たちは簡単に敗北しても不思議ではありませんでした  
 Now I would like to have my own children,  and I wonder about the boat.    	  今は 自分の子どもを欲しいと思い あのボートのことを考えます  
 Who could ever wish it on their own?    	  自らあんなボートに乗りたいと願う人はいないでしょう  
 Yet I am afraid of privilege,  of ease,  of entitlement.    	  一方で私は 安心や権利という恩恵の上に あぐらをかくことを恐れています 何が得られる保証もない  
 Can I give them a bow in their lives,  dipping bravely into each wave,  the unperturbed and steady beat of the engine, the vast horizon that guarantees nothing?    	  広大な水平線に向けて 乱れることのない一定のエンジンの音に包まれながら 波間を勇敢に切り進む人生を 子どもたちに与えて良いのでしょうか？  
 I don't know.    	  わかりません  
 But if I could give it  and still see them safely through,  I would.    	  でも私がそれを与えても 子どもたちが 無事やりとげられるようなら そうしたいと思います  
   Trevor Neilson: And also, Tan's mother is here today  in the fourth or fifth row.    	    そしてタンのお母さんも今日はお越しです ４列目あたりにいらっしゃいます  
 My story begins right here actually in Rajasthan  about two years ago.    	  事の成り行きは 実はここラジャスターン州で 約２年前に始まりました  
 I was in the desert, under the starry skies  with the Sufi singer Mukhtiar Ali.    	  私はスーフィーの歌手であるムフタール・アリと 星空の下の砂漠で  
 And we were in conversation  about how nothing had changed  since the time of the ancient Indian epic "The Mahabharata."    	  語り合っていました 「古代インドの叙事詩 マハーバーラタの時代から何も変わっていないね」と  
 So back in the day, when us Indians wanted to travel  we'd jump into a chariot and we'd zoom across the sky.    	  どこかに行きたいとき 神話の中で私たちインド人は 二輪馬車に飛び乗って空を駆けて行きました  
 Now we do the same with airplanes.    	  現代でも同じことを飛行機でしています  
 Back then,  when Arjuna, the great Indian warrior prince,  when he was thirsty, he'd take out a bow,  he'd shoot it into the ground and water would come out.    	  神話では インドの偉大な戦士アルジュナ王子は 喉が渇くと弓を取り出し 地面を射って水を噴き出させました  
 Now we do the same  with drills and machines.    	  現代でも同じことを ドリルと機械でしています  
 The conclusion that we came to  was that magic had been replaced  by machinery.    	  私たちの出した結論は 「機械が魔法に取って代わったね」 ということでした  
 And this made me really sad.    	  なんてつまらないんだろうと思いました  
 I found myself becoming a little bit of a technophobe.    	  少しハイテク恐怖症になりました  
 I was terrified by this idea  that I would lose the ability  to enjoy and appreciate the sunset  without having my camera on me, without tweeting it to my friends.    	  写真を撮ったり 友達にツイートせずに 純粋に夕日を眺めて楽しむことが できなくなったらどうしようと怖くなりました  
 And it felt like technology  should enable magic, not kill it.    	  それに技術は魔法を壊すのでなく 実現すべきな気がしました  
 When I was a little girl,  my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket watch.    	  子供の頃 祖父に 小さな銀の懐中時計をもらったのですが  
 And this piece of 50-year-old technology  became the most magical thing to me.    	  この50年前の技術は 私にとって とても不思議な力を持つものになり  
 It became a gilded gateway  into a world full of pirates and shipwrecks  and images in my imagination.    	  海賊や難破船に満ちた 空想上の世界への 輝く扉になりました  
 So I felt like our cellphones  and our fancy watches and our cameras  had stopped us from dreaming.    	  だから私は携帯電話やカメラや ハイテクな腕時計などせいで 人が 夢を見なくなったように感じました  
 They stopped us from being inspired.    	  インスピレーションが失われたのだと  
 And so I jumped in, I jumped into this world of technology,  to see how I could use it to enable magic  as opposed to kill it.    	  そこで私はこのテクノロジーの世界に飛び込んで 魔法を壊さず 逆に実現するために どう使えるか考えました  
 I've been illustrating books since I was 16.    	  16歳の頃から挿絵を描いているので  
 And so when I saw the iPad,  I saw it as a storytelling device  that could connect readers all over the world.    	  iPadを見たとき 物語を語るツールとして 世界中の読者を繋げることができると思いました  
 It can know how we're holding it.    	  iPadにはユーザーがどこにいて どんな持ち方を  
 It can know where we are.    	  しているのか認識できます  
 It brings together image and text  and animation and sound and touch.    	  画像や文章やアニメーション 音声やタッチ操作が一体になっています  
 Storytelling is becoming  more and more multi-sensorial.    	  物語を伝えるやり方は どんどん多感覚になっています  
 But what are we doing with it?    	  ではどのように使っているか  
 So I'm actually just going to go in and launch Khoya, an interactive app for the iPad.    	  インタラクティブなアプリを起動させてお見せします  
 So it says, "Place your fingers  upon each light."    	  「それぞれの光に指を置いてください」とあります 「それぞれの光に指を置いてください」とあります  
 And so --    It says, "This box belongs to ... "  And so I type in my name.    	  すると―  「この箱の持ち主は･･･」と聞かれるので 名前を入力すると  
 And actually I become a character in the book.    	  自分が本の登場人物になります  
 At various points, a little letter drops down to me --  and the iPad knows where you live because of GPS --  which is actually addressed to me.    	  いろいろな場面で短い手紙が届きます iPadのGPSで持ち主の場所が分かるので 手紙は実際自分宛てになっています  
 The child in me is really excited  by these kinds of possibilities.    	  このような可能性に私は 童心にかえってわくわくします  
 Now I've been talking a lot about magic.    	  魔法について沢山話しましたが  
 And I don't mean wizards and dragons,  I mean the kind of childhood magic,  those ideas that we all harbored as children.    	  私が言うのは魔法使いやドラゴンのことではなくて 誰もが子供の頃抱いていた 空想の魔法のことです  
 This idea of fireflies in a jar, for some reason,  was always really exciting to me.    	  なぜか瓶の中のホタルのイメージには いつもわくわくさせられました  
 And so over here you need to tilt your iPad,  take the fireflies out.    	  ホタルを出してあげるには iPadを傾けないと駄目です  
 And they actually illuminate your way through the rest of the book.    	  こうすると物語の続きをホタルが照らしてくれます  
 Another idea that really fascinated me as a child  was that an entire galaxy could be contained  within a single marble.    	  もう１つ子供の頃とても夢中になったのは １つのビー玉に１つの銀河系が 入っているという空想でした  
 And so over here,  each book and each world  becomes a little marble  that I drag in  to this magical device within the device.    	  そこでこちらは それぞれの本と世界が 小さなビー玉になっていて これをドラッグして アプリの中のこの不思議な装置に入れると  
 And it opens up a map.    	  地図が開くようになっています  
 All along, all fantasy books have always had maps,  but these maps have been static.    	  今までもファンタジーの本には必ず地図がありました でも変化しない地図でした  
 This is a map that grows and glows  and becomes your navigation for the rest of the book.    	  この地図は拡がって光を発し その先の道しるべになります  
 It reveals itself to you at certain points in the book as well.    	  本の中の特定の箇所で現れることもあります  
 So I'm just going to enter in.    	  では入ってみます  
 Another thing that's actually really important to me  is creating content that is Indian  and yet very contemporary.    	  私にとってもう１つとても重要だったのは インド的でありながらとても近代的な コンテンツを作るということでした  
 Over here, these are the Apsaras.    	  これはアプサラスです  
 So we've all heard about fairies and we've all heard about nymphs,  but how many people outside of India  know about their Indian counterparts, the Apsaras?    	  誰もが妖精やニンフの話は聞いたことがありますが インド国外でインド版の妖精アプサラスのことを 知っている人がどれだけいるでしょう？  
 These poor Apsaras have been trapped inside Indra's chambers for thousands of years  in an old and musty book.    	  可哀相にアプサラスは古びたカビ臭い本の中のインドラの宮廷に 何千年も閉じ込められてきました  
 And so we're bringing them back  in a contemporary story for children.    	  それを現代的な 児童向け物語の中に復活させました  
 And a story that actually deals with new issues  like the environmental crisis.    	  実際に環境問題のような新しい課題に ふれた物語です  
   Speaking of the environmental crisis,  I think a big problem has been in the last 10 years  is that children have been locked inside their rooms,  glued to their PCs, they haven't been able to get out.    	   環境の問題と言えば 過去10年の間で大きな問題になっているのは 子供たちが自分の部屋に閉じこもり PCに釘付けで外に出ないことです  
 But now with mobile technology,  we can actually take our children outside into the natural world  with their technology.    	  でもモバイル技術がある今 子供たちを実際に技術と一緒に外の自然に 連れ出すことができます  
 One of the interactions in the book  is that you're sent off on this quest  take out your camera on the iPad  and collect pictures of different natural objects.    	  この本を通して行うことの１つは 探検に出かけることです 外に出てiPadのカメラを使って 様々な自然の物の写真を 集めなくてはなりません  
 When I was a child, I had multiple collections  of sticks and stones and pebbles and shells.    	  子供の頃 私は棒や石や 小石や貝殻などを沢山集めていたものですが  
 And somehow kids don't do that anymore.    	  なぜか今の子はそういうことをしません  
 So in bringing back this childhood ritual,  you need to go out  and, in one chapter, take a picture of a flower  and then tag it.    	  だからこの子供の遊びを復活させ 外に出させて ある章では花の写真を撮って タイトルをつけ  
 In another chapter, you need to take a picture of a piece of bark  and then tag that.    	  別の章では樹皮の写真を撮って それにタイトルを付けさせます  
 And what happens  is that you actually create a digital collection of photographs  that you can then put up online.    	  どうなるかと言うと 自分のデジタル写真集を作って ネットで公開できるわけです  
 A child in London puts up a picture of a fox  and says, "Oh, I saw a fox today."    	  ロンドンの子供がキツネの写真を見せて 「今日キツネを見たよ」と言うと  
 A child in India says, "I saw a monkey today."    	  インドの子供が「僕は猿を見たよ」と言い  
 And it creates this kind of social network  around a collection of digital photographs  that you've actually taken. In the possibilities of linking together  magic, the earth and technology,  there are multiple possibilities.    	  自分が実際に撮った デジタル写真集を中心に ソーシャルネットワークができます 魔法と地球と技術を １つにつなげることで  
 In the next book, we plan on having an interaction  where you take your iPad out with the video on  and through augmented reality,  you see this layer of animated pixies  appear on a houseplant that's outside your house.    	  たくさんの可能性が生まれます 次の本ではiPadのビデオを使った 対話操作を用意しています 拡張現実を使って 自分の家の外にある観葉植物の上に アニメ化された妖精が現れるのが見えるようにします  
 At one point, your screen is filled up with leaves.    	  画面が葉っぱでいっぱいになる場面があり  
 And so you need to make the sound of wind and blow them away  and read the rest of the book.    	  ふーっと息を吹きかけて葉っぱを飛ばし 本の続きを読むようになっています  
 We're moving, we're all moving here,  to a world where the forces of nature  come closer together to technology,  and magic and technology can come closer together.    	  私たちは そして人類は皆 自然の力が技術に近づいてきて 魔法と技術が近くなれる 世界に向かって進んでいて  
 We're harnessing energy from the sun.    	  太陽からエネルギーを得たりしています  
 We're bringing our children and ourselves  closer to the natural world  and that magic and joy  and childhood love that we had  through the simple medium of a story.    	  私たちは子供たちと自分たちが 物語というシンプルな媒体を通じて 自然の世界や魔法や喜びや 以前持っていた子供の頃の夢中な気持ちに もっと近づけるようにしているのです  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとう  
 I would like to talk to you  about why many e-health projects fail.    	  なぜe-健康推進運動が うまくいかないのかお話しします  
 And I really think that the most important thing of it  is that we stopped listening to patients.    	  推進運動が失敗する理由で何が一番重大かというと 患者の声を聞かなくなったことです  
 And one of the things we did at Radboud University  is we appointed a chief listening officer.    	  ラートボウト大学で実施した事のひとつは CLOを置いたことです  
 Not in a very scientific way --  she puts up a little cup of coffee or cup of tea  and asks patients, family, relatives,  "What's up?    	  科学的とは程遠いやり方で コーヒーや紅茶を入れて 親しそうに患者や 家族や親せきに「最近どう? 私達にできることはありますか?」  
 How could we help you?"    	  と尋ねるのです  
 And we think, we like to think,  that this is one of the major problems  why all -- maybe not all --  but most of the e-health projects fail,  since we stopped listening.    	  患者の声を聞かなくなったことが 全部とは言わなくても e-健康推進運動の 殆どが実を結んでいない 主要な問題・原因の1つなのです  
 This is my WiFi scale. It's a very simple thing.    	  私のWiFi体重計です 単純な機械です  
 It's got one knob, on/off.    	  入切のスイッチひとつしかありません  
 And every morning I hop on it.    	  毎朝ピョンと飛び乗って  
 And yes, I've got a challenge,  as you might see.    	  そうなんです 見れば分かりますが 体重管理を頑張っています  
 And I put my challenge on 95 kg.    	  線が引かれてる 95キロに向けて努力しています  
 But the thing is that it's made this simple  that whenever I hop on,  it sends my data through Google Health as well.    	  でも これのいいところはこんなに簡単なのに ピョンと乗るだけで Googleヘルスにも計量結果を送ってくれることです  
 And it's collected by my general practitioner as well,  so he can see what's my problem in weight,  not on the very moment  that I need cardiologic support or something like it,  but also looking backward.    	  私を診ている街の総合診療医のところにも送られるから 担当医は体重に問題があるか分かります 心臓除細動器やそんな感じのものが 必要になるその瞬間まで待つのではなく 遡って先手先手を打つのです  
 But there's another thing.    	  他の利点もあります ご存じかもしれませんが  
 As some of you might know, I've got more than 4,000 followers on Twitter.    	  4000人以上がツイッター上でフォローしてくれています  
 So every morning I hop on my WiFi scale  and before I'm in my car, people start talking to me,  "I think you need a light lunch today, Lucien."    	  だから毎朝 体重を量って 家を出ると車に乗り込む前には既に 「今日はお昼少なめな方がいいかもね」 なんていう つぶやきが来たりしています  
   But that's the nicest thing that could happen,  since this is peer pressure,  peer pressure used to help patients --  since this could be used for obesity,  it could be used  to stop smoking in patients.    	   周りの人が叱咤激励してくれるという 治療として最高にいいことです これはピアプレッシャー法で 慢性患者を改善するのに使われます 肥満治療にも使われますし 喫煙治療にも使われます  
 But on the other hand, it also could be used  to get people from out of their chairs  and try to work together in some kind of gaming activity  to get more control of their health.    	  違う視点では この方法は 現状から抜け出して ゲーム感覚で仲間と一緒に努力して より自分の健康を管理できるようにします  
 As of next week, it will soon be available.    	  来週 この方法を使っている製品が発売されます  
 There will be this little blood pressure meter  connected to an iPhone or something or other.    	  これは小さな血圧計で iPhoneやら他の機器につなげます  
 And people will be able, from their homes,  to take their blood pressure,  send it into their doctor  and eventually share it with others, for instance,  for over a hundred dollars.    	  家庭で 血圧を測って 担当医に送れるようになります 100ドルと少しでより広範に渡る情報の共有が 結果的に可能となります  
 And this is the point where patients get into position  and can collect, not only their own control again,  be captain of their own ship,  but also can help us in health care  due to the challenges that we face,  like health care cost explosion,  doubled demand and things like that.    	  ここまで環境が整えば 患者は 数値を集計して 自身の健康管理ができ 自分という船の船長として舵取りが 出来るようになるだけでなく 諸々の 医療費が爆発的に急上昇したり 医療需要が倍増したりやらの問題に直面している ヘルスケアの問題にも役立ちます  
 Make techniques that are easy to use  and start with this to embrace patients in the team.    	  使いやすい技術を作って 一丸となって患者を包み込む為に技術を使い始めましょう  
 And you can do this with techniques like this,  but also by crowd-sourcing.    	  血圧計のような技術でも可能ですが クラウドに取り込むことでも可能です  
 And one of the things we did  I would like to share with you introduced by a little video.    	  私達が実施したことを まずはこのビデオを見ていただいて紹介したいと思います  
   We've all got navigation controls in our car.    	   車にはカーナビが付いていて方向を案内してくれます  
 We maybe even [have] it in our cellphone.    	  携帯電話にだってナビを付けてもいいでしょう  
 We know perfectly where all the ATMs are  about the city of Maastricht.    	  ナビを使えばマーストリヒト市内の ATMの位置を全て特定できます  
 The other thing is we know where all the gas stations are.    	  他にも ファーストフード店はもちろん  
 And sure, we could find fast food chains.    	  ガソリンスタンドの位置情報もわかります  
 But where would be the nearest AED  to help this patient?    	  でも このビデオの患者を救える 1番近いAED はどこにあるでしょう?  
 We asked around and nobody knew.    	  尋ねてみたけど誰も知りませんでした  
 Nobody knew where the nearest life-saving AED  was to be obtained right now.    	  誰も知らなかった命を救う AED のありかが これで分かります!  
 So what we did, we crowdsourced The Netherlands.    	  そう オランダをクラウドに取り込みました  
 We set up a website  and asked the crowd, "If you see an AED,  please submit it, tell us where it is,  tell us when it's open,"  since sometimes in office hours sometimes it's closed, of course.    	  新しくサイトを作って「クラウド」に 「AEDがあったら どこにあったか いつ使えるか 投稿してください」とお願いしました というのも使える時間が分からないと 営業時間外で使えないことがあるからです  
 And over 10,000 AEDs already in The Netherlands  already have been submitted.    	  オランダのAEDのありかが既に 10000 機分以上送信されています  
 The next step we took was to find the applications for it.    	  次に情報の利用方法を探りました  
 And we built an iPad application.    	  まずはiPadアプリを作りました  
 We made an application for Layar, augmented reality,  to find these AEDs.    	  拡張現実を表現するLayar上でAEDを 探すことができるアプリを作りました  
 And whenever you are in a city like Maastricht and somebody collapses,  you can use your iPhone,  and within the next weeks also run your Microsoft cellphone,  to find the nearest AED  which can save lives.    	  マーストリヒト市のように情報が蓄積された都市なら 誰かが倒れても iPhone を使って また あと数週間もすれば マイクロソフトフォン でも 倒れた人の命を救うAED探しが できるようになります  
 And as of today,  we would like to introduce this, not only as AED4EU,  which is what the product is called,  but also AED4US.    	  しかしこれまでのAED4U だけでなく 今日をもって AED4USを 発表し使用開始します  
 And we would like to start this on a worldwide level.    	  世界中で使えるようにします  
 And [we're] asking all of our colleagues in the rest of the world,  colleague universities, to help us  to find and work and act like a hub  to crowd-source all these AEDs all around the world.    	  世界中の仲間や協力してくれる大学にお願いして 一緒に各々の周囲を 探して協力作業するハブとして働き 世界中のAEDをクラウドに取り込みます  
 That whenever you're on holiday and somebody collapses,  might it be your own relative or someone just in front of you,  you can find this.    	  見知らぬ旅行先で誰かが倒れるかもしれません 親戚や目の前にいる人が倒れることだってあるでしょう そんな時にAEDを見つけることができます  
 The other thing we would like to ask  is of companies also all over the world  that will be able to help us validate these AEDs.    	  この協力以外にもお願いしたいのは 世界中の企業の力で AED配置情報を 再確認できるようにしたいのです  
 These might be courier services or cable guys for instance,  just to see whether the AED that's submitted  still is in place.    	  例えば宅配員だったり有線テレビ整備員 だったりが 以前に送信された場所に 今もAED があるかどうか 確認し情報を更新します  
 So please help us on this one  and try to make not only health a little bit better, but take control of it.    	  どうかご協力ください 健康を少しだけ良くするだけでなくコントロールできるようにしましょう  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 I'm here to share my photography.    	  今日は 僕の写真をご覧に入れます  
 Or is it photography?    	  でも写真と言っていいのかわかりません  
 Because, of course, this is a photograph  that you can't take with your camera.    	  この写真はもちろん カメラでは撮れません  
 Yet, my interest in photography started  as I got my first digital camera  at the age of 15.    	  僕が写真に興味を持つようになったのは 初めてのカメラを手にした 15歳のときで それは以前からの  
 It mixed with my earlier passion for drawing,  but it was a bit different,  because using the camera,  the process was in the planning instead.    	  絵への情熱と混じり合っていましたが 違いもありました カメラで重要なのは 構想の段階になります  
 And when you take a photograph with a camera,  the process ends when you press the trigger.    	  カメラで写真を撮る場合 シャッターを切った瞬間にプロセスは終わります  
 So to me it felt like photography was more about  being at the right place and the right time.    	  だから写真というのは しかるべき時にしかるべき場所にいるということが大部分で  
 I felt like anyone could do that.    	  誰にでもできることに思えたのです  
 So I wanted to create something different,  something where the process starts  when you press the trigger.    	  僕は何かもっと違ったものを作りたいと思いました シャッターを切った瞬間に プロセスが始まるような何かです たとえばこんな写真です  
 Photos like this:  construction going on along a busy road. But it has an unexpected twist.    	  往来の激しい通りで 工事が行われていますが 予想外の捻りが加えられています  
 And despite that,  it retains a level of realism.    	  それでいて リアルさも依然保たれています  
 Or photos like these --  both dark and colorful,  but all with a common goal  of retaining the level of realism.    	  あるいはこのような写真 暗いのも色鮮やかなのもありますが 共通するのは 一定のリアルさを 保っているということです  
 When I say realism,  I mean photo-realism.    	  僕がリアルと言っているのは フォトリアリズム的ということです  
 Because, of course,  it's not something you can capture really,  but I always want it to look like it could have been captured somehow  as a photograph.    	  もちろんこのようなものを 実際に撮すことはできませんけど 何か本当にカメラで撮ったような感じを 出したいと いつも思っています  
 Photos where you will need a brief moment to think  to figure out the trick.    	  仕掛けに気づくのに 一瞬 考えなければならないような写真です だから瞬間を切り取るというよりは  
 So it's more about capturing an idea  But what's the trick  that makes it look realistic?    	  アイデアを切り取るというのに近いでしょう では これをリアルに 見せているものは何でしょう？  
 Is it something about the details  or the colors?    	  ディテールでしょうか 色でしょうか  
 Is it something about the light?    	  それとも光でしょうか？  
 What creates the illusion?    	  何がイリュージョンを生み出しているのでしょう？  
 Sometimes the perspective is the illusion.    	  見え方がイリュージョンということもあります  
 But in the end, it comes down to how we interpret the world  and how it can be realized on a two-dimensional surface.    	  つまるところ 僕たちが世界をどう解釈し 二次元平面上でどう表現できるかということにかかっているのです  
 It's not really what is realistic,  it's what we think looks realistic really.    	  何がリアルかというよりは 何がリアルに見えるか というのがポイントなんです  
 So I think the basics  are quite simple.    	  基本は ごく単純です  
 I just see it as a puzzle of reality  where you can take different pieces of reality and put it together  to create alternate reality.    	  現実の別々な断片を組み合わせて 新たな現実を作り出す— パズルのようなものです  
 And let me show you a simple example.    	  簡単な例をお見せしましょう  
 Here we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects,  something we all can relate to living in a three-dimensional world.    	  ここに想像上の物体が３つあります 三次元世界の物として捉えることができます  
 But combined in a certain way,  they can create something that still looks three-dimensional,  like it could exist.    	  しかしある種の組み合わせ方をすると 依然 三次元的に— ありえそうに見えながら  
 But at the same time, we know it can't.    	  存在しえないものができます  
 So we trick our brains,  because our brain simply doesn't accept the fact  that it doesn't really make sense.    	  脳が騙されるのです 脳はそれが意味をなさないという事実を 受け入れようとしないからです  
 And I see the same process  with combining photographs.    	  写真を組み合わせるときにも この現象を利用します  
 It's just really about combining different realities.    	  異なる現実の組み合わせ方が大事なんです  
 So the things that make a photograph look realistic,  I think it's the things that we don't even think about,  the things all around us in our daily lives.    	  写真をリアルに見せるのは 僕たちが意識さえしないもの 身の回りにある日常的なものです  
 But when combining photographs,  this is really important to consider,  because otherwise it just looks wrong somehow.    	  写真を組み合わせるときには これをよく考える必要があります そうしないと どこか変に見えてしまうからです  
 So I would like to say that there are three simple rules to follow  to achieve a realistic result.    	  リアルな結果が得られるためのシンプルなルールが ３つあると思います  
 As you can see, these images aren't really special.    	  これらの画像には特別なところは何もありません  
 But combined, they can create something like this.    	  しかし組み合わせると このようなものができます  
 So the first rule is that photos combined  should have the same perspective.    	  第一のルールは 組み合わせる写真は 同じ視点でなければならないということ  
 Secondly, photos combined  should have the same type of light.    	  第二に 組み合わせる写真は 光の条件が同じである必要があります  
 And these two images both fulfill these two requirements --  shot at the same height and in the same type of light.    	  この２枚の写真は どちらの条件も充たしています 同じ高さから撮られ 光の条件も同じです  
 The third one is about making it impossible to distinguish  where the different images begin and end  by making it seamless. Make it impossible to say  how the image actually was composed.    	  第三のルールは 別な画像が どこから始まるのか分からないよう 継ぎ目をなくすということです 画像がどう組み合わされたのか  
 So by matching color, contrast and brightness  in the borders between the different images,  adding photographic defects  like depth of field,  desaturated colors and noise,  we erase the borders between the different images  and make it look like one single image,  despite the fact that one image  can contain hundreds of layers basically.    	  分からなくするのです 境界部分の 色とコントラストと 明るさを合わせ 被写界深度や彩度を落としたり ノイズを入れるなど 写真に効果を加え 画像の間の境界を消して 実際には何百ものレイヤがあっても １枚の写真であるかのように 見せかけるのです  
 So here's another example.    	  これは別な例です  
   One might think that this is just an image of a landscape  and the lower part is what's manipulated.    	   ただの風景写真の下の方の部分を 加工したように見えますが  
 But this image is actually entirely composed  of photographs from different locations.    	  実際には別な場所で撮った たくさんの写真から構成されています  
 I personally think that it's easier to actually create a place  than to find a place,  because then you don't need to compromise  with the ideas in your head.    	  場所を探し出すよりも 作り出してしまう方が 簡単だと思います その方が頭の中のアイデアを そのまま実現できますから  
 But it does require a lot of planning.    	  でもよく構想する必要があります  
 And getting this idea during winter,  I knew that I had several months to plan it,  to find the different locations  for the pieces of the puzzle basically.    	  このアイデアは冬に思いついたんですが パズルのピースとなる場所を 見つけるために 何ヶ月も検討しました  
 So for example,  the fish was captured on a fishing trip.    	  たとえば 魚は釣り旅行で捕まえたものです  
 The shores are from a different location.    	  岸辺は別な場所で撮りました  
 The underwater part was captured in a stone pit.    	  水中の部分は石切場です  
 And yeah, I even turned the house on top of the island red  to make it look more Swedish.    	  そして島の上の家を赤くして スウェーデンっぽくしました  
 So to achieve a realistic result,  I think it comes down to planning.    	  リアルな結果を得るためには 構想が重要ということです  
 It always starts with a sketch, an idea.    	  僕はいつもアイデアのスケッチから始めます  
 Then it's about combining the different photographs.    	  それから別の写真を組み合わせます  
 And here every piece is very well planned.    	  それぞれのパーツは とてもしっかり構想されています  
 And if you do a good job capturing the photos,  the result can be quite beautiful  and also quite realistic.    	  写真の撮影がうまくいけば 結果はとても素晴らしく すごくリアルなものになります  
 So all the tools are out there,  and the only thing that limits us  is our imagination.    	  必要な道具はすべて揃っており できることを制限するのは 自分自身の想像力だけです  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 Because I usually take the role  of trying to explain to people  how wonderful the new technologies  that are coming along are going to be,  and I thought that, since I was among friends here,  I would tell you what I really think and try to look back and try to understand  what is really going on here  with these amazing jumps in technology  that seem so fast that we can barely keep on top of it.    	  普段は これから新しく 出てくる テクノロジーが いかに素晴らしいものになるか 説明する機会が多く 今日は仲間の皆さんもいるので 私が真剣に考えていることをお話ししたいと思います 現在の めまぐるしく 目覚しいテクノロジーの飛躍において 一体 本当に何が起きているのか 過去を振り返って考えて見たいと思います  
 So I'm going to start out  by showing just one very boring technology slide.    	  では、はじめに テクノロジーに関する平凡なスライドをお見せします  
 And then, so if you can just turn on the slide that's on.    	  では…スライドを映せますか？  
 This is just a random slide  that I picked out of my file.    	  これは私のファイルの中から 適当に選んだ物です  
 What I want to show you is not so much the details of the slide,  but the general form of it.    	  お見せしたいのは スライドの詳細というよりも 全体の形です  
 This happens to be a slide of some analysis that we were doing  about the power of RISC microprocessors  versus the power of local area networks.    	  これは ある分析に関するスライドで RISCマイクロプロセッサの能力と ローカルエリア・ネットワークの能力を比較したものです  
 And the interesting thing about it  is that this slide,  like so many technology slides that we're used to,  is a sort of a straight line  on a semi-log curve.    	  興味深い点は このスライドが 他のテクノロジーに関するスライドと同様 片対数グラフ上で いわば 直線という事です 片対数グラフ上で いわば 直線という事です  
 In other words, every step here  represents an order of magnitude  in performance scale. And this is a new thing  that we talk about technology  on semi-log curves.    	  つまり 縦軸の目盛りは 「べき乗」で 性能の尺度を 示しています 技術の進歩を 指数関数的に考えるのは  
 Something really weird is going on here.    	  新しいことです とても奇妙なことがここで起きています  
 And that's basically what I'm going to be talking about.    	  それが今日の話の焦点です  
 So, if you could bring up the lights.    	  では、明るくしてもらえますか？  
 If you could bring up the lights higher,  because I'm just going to use a piece of paper here.    	  もっと明るくしてもらえますか？ ここで紙を使いたいので  
 Now why do we draw technology curves  in semi-log curves?    	  なぜテクノロジーの推移を表すのに 片対数グラフを使うのでしょう？  
 Well the answer is, if I drew it on a normal curve  where, let's say, this is years,  this is time of some sort,  and this is whatever measure of the technology  that I'm trying to graph,  the graphs look sort of silly.    	  普通のグラフで描くとこうなります 横軸を年数＿ つまり ある種の時間の単位とし 縦軸を何らかの方法で技術を 測ったときの単位とすると グラフはあまり意味がありません  
 They sort of go like this.    	  こんな感じです  
 And they don't tell us much.    	  特に何も分かりません  
 Now if I graph, for instance,  some other technology, say transportation technology,  on a semi-log curve,  it would look very stupid, it would look like a flat line.    	  反対に 別の技術 例えば輸送技術の推移を 片対数グラフにすると くだらない ただの平らな線になってしまいます  
 But when something like this happens,  things are qualitatively changing.    	  でも、このようなことが起きている時 物事は質的に変化しています  
 So if transportation technology  was moving along as fast as microprocessor technology,  then the day after tomorrow,  I would be able to get in a taxi cab  and be in Tokyo in 30 seconds.    	  つまり、輸送技術が マイクロプロセッサ並みの速さで進化したとすると 明後日には タクシーに乗って 東京に30秒で到着していることでしょう  
 It's not moving like that.    	  実際はそうではありません  
 in the history of technology development  of this kind of self-feeding growth  where you go by orders of magnitude every few years.    	  技術開発の歴史において 数年おきに桁違いに 自己増殖的に成長するなど 先例がありません  
 Now the question that I'd like to ask is,  if you look at these exponential curves,  they don't go on forever.    	  ここで疑問が生まれます この様な指数関数的な伸びは 永久には続きません  
 Things just can't possibly keep changing  as fast as they are.    	  物事がこんな速度で変化し続けることは できないのです  
 One of two things is going to happen.    	  通常、２つのうち１つのことが起こります  
 until something totally different comes along,  or maybe it's going to do this.    	  何か完全に違うことが起こるまでの間 このような標準的なS型曲線に落ち着くか  
 That's about all it can do.    	  もしくはこうなるか それしかありません  
 Now I'm an optimist,  so I sort of think it's probably going to do something like that.    	  私は楽観主義者なので こういう風に進むだろうと考えます  
 If so, that means that what we're in the middle of right now  is a transition.    	  そうだとすると、私達が今いるのは 移行のまっただ中です  
 We're sort of on this line  in a transition from the way the world used to be  to some new way that the world is.    	  いわば この線の上にいます 世界が かつてあった あり方から 何か新しいあり方へ移行している途中です  
 And so what I'm trying to ask, what I've been asking myself,  is what's this new way that the world is?    	  ここで疑問は、私自身に自問してきたことですが 新しい世界のあり方とはどのようなものか？  
 What's that new state that the world is heading toward?    	  行く先にある 新しい状態とはどの様なものか？ということです  
 Because the transition seems very, very confusing  when we're right in the middle of it.    	  なぜなら、移行はそのまっただ中にいると 理解が困難なものだからです  
 Now when I was a kid growing up,  the future was kind of the year 2000,  and people used to talk about what would happen in the year 2000.    	  私が子供の頃 未来というのはせいぜい西暦2000年頃を指していて 人々は2000年には何が起きるかを話していたものでした  
 Now here's a conference  in which people talk about the future,  and you notice that the future is still at about the year 2000.    	  今ここで、未来について話し合う 会議が開催されていますが その"未来"が いまだに2000年辺りである事に気づきます  
 It's about as far as we go out.    	  誰も その先はあまり考えません  
 So in other words, the future has kind of been shrinking  one year per year  for my whole lifetime.    	  つまり "未来"はいわば縮小していると言えます 毎年一年ずつ、 私の生涯通じてです  
 Now I think that the reason  that something's happening there.    	  その理由は この所で何かが起きていると  
 That transition is happening. We can all sense it.    	  皆が感じているからだと思います  
 And we know that it just doesn't make too much sense  to think out 30, 50 years  because everything's going to be so different  that a simple extrapolation of what we're doing  just doesn't make any sense at all.    	  移行が起きていると 実感していて 30、50年先を考えても意味がないと 知っているからです 全てが大きく変わるのが目に見えているのに 将来をちょっと推測してみるなど 意味がなく思えるのです  
 So what I would like to talk about  what that transition could be that we're going through.    	  そこで 私がお話ししたいのは 我々の経験している移行が  
 Now in order to do that  I'm going to have to talk about a bunch of stuff  that really has nothing to do  with technology and computers.    	  一体何なのか という事です そのためには 様々な お話しをしなければなりません テクノロジーやコンピュータとは  
 Because I think the only way to understand this  is to really step back  and take a long time scale look at things.    	  全く関係がない事柄についてです なぜならこれを理解する唯一の方法は 本当に大きく離れて 長い時間軸で物事を見ることだからです  
 So the time scale that I would like to look at this on  is the time scale of life on Earth.    	  これを理解するための時間軸として 地球上での生命の歴史を見てみます  
 if you look at it a few billion years at a time.    	  数十億年単位で見てみると  
 So if you go back  about two and a half billion years,  the Earth was this big, sterile hunk of rock  with a lot of chemicals floating around on it.    	  現状を理解することが出来ます 25億年前に さかのぼると 地球は大きな 不毛な石の固まりで 周りには沢山の化学物質が漂っていました  
 that the chemicals got organized,  we begin to get a pretty good idea of how they do it.    	  それらの化学物質が どう組み合わさっていったかを考えると  
 And I think that there's theories that are beginning to understand  about how it started with RNA,  but I'm going to tell a sort of simple story of it,  which is that, at that time,  there were little drops of oil floating around  with all kinds of different recipes of chemicals in them.    	  その仕組みが分かるようになります RNAが生命の誕生に関わったという仮説も 解明されはじめていますが ここでは簡単にお話します 当時＿ そこには多様な配合の化学物質を含む 小さな油滴が漂っていました それらの油滴のいくつかは 外部から化学物質を取り込み  
 And some of those drops of oil  had a particular combination of chemicals in them  which caused them to incorporate chemicals from the outside  and grow the drops of oil.    	  油滴を成長させる性質を持つ 特定の組み合わの化学物資を内包していました 次第にそのような性質を持つものが 分裂をはじめました それらの小さな油滴は ある意味で  
 And those were the most primitive forms of cells in a sense,  But now those drops of oil weren't really alive, as we say it now,  because every one of them  was a little random recipe of chemicals.    	  最も原始的な細胞とも言えますが 今日の生命の定義には当てはまりません なぜならそれらは全て でたらめな 化学物質の配合に過ぎなかったからです  
 And every time it divided,  they got sort of unequal division  of the chemicals within them.    	  分裂の度に 内包する化学物質は 言わば非均衡に分割されました  
 And so every drop was a little bit different.    	  そのため、全ての雫は少しづつ違っていました  
 In fact, the drops that were different in a way  at incorporating chemicals around them,  grew more and incorporated more chemicals and divided more.    	  しかし様々な雫の中には 周囲の化学物質を取り込むのが 上手いものがでてきて より頻繁に成長し、取り込み、分裂する様になりました  
 So those tended to live longer,  get expressed more.    	  そのため これらが長く生き残り より多く発現する傾向にありました  
 Now that's sort of just a very simple  chemical form of life,  but when things got interesting  was when these drops  learned a trick about abstraction.    	  これは非常に単純な 化学的な形での生命と言えますが 興味深くなったのは これらの雫が 抽象化の方法を覚えた時です  
 Somehow by ways that we don't quite understand,  these little drops learned to write down information.    	  よく分かっていない何らかの方法で 情報を書き出す方法を学習したのです  
 They learned to record the information  that was the recipe of the cell  onto a particular kind of chemical  called DNA.    	  細胞の素となる情報を 特殊なDNAという化学物質に 特殊なDNAという化学物質に 記録する方法を習得しました  
 So in other words, they worked out,  in this mindless sort of evolutionary way,  a form of writing that let them write down what they were,  The amazing thing is that that way of writing  seems to have stayed steady  since it evolved two and a half billion years ago.    	  進化の過程で偶然に 保存の仕方そのものを含む 自己保存の書き出し方を 身に付けてしまったのです 驚くべきはこの書き出し方が 25億年前に誕生して以来 不変であるということです  
 In fact the recipe for us, our genes,  is exactly that same code and that same way of writing.    	  事実、私達の素となる遺伝子も 同じコードで 同じ書き方で書かれています  
 In fact, every living creature is written  in exactly the same set of letters and the same code.    	  他の全ての生物も 全く同じ文字の組み合わせと 同じコードで記述されています  
 In fact, one of the things that I did  just for amusement purposes  is we can now write things in this code.    	  これはイタズラで やってみたことですが、現在は この記号で文章を書くこともできます  
 And I've got here a little 100 micrograms of white powder,  which I try not to let the security people see at airports.    	  ここに100μgの白い粉があります 空港の警備員には見せないようにしているものですが  
   But this has in it --  the code has standard letters that we use for symbolizing it --  and I wrote my business card onto a piece of DNA  and amplified it 10 to the 22 times.    	   この中には DNA のコードを使って 名刺の情報を書き それを＿ 10の22乗回 増幅させたものが 入っています  
 So if anyone would like a hundred million copies of my business card,  I have plenty for everyone in the room,  and, in fact, everyone in the world,  and it's right here.    	  私の名刺を 数億万部 欲しい方がいれば 皆さんに行き渡るくらい十分あります 実は 全世界中の人に 行き渡るくらいあります  
   If I had really been a egotist,  I would have put it into a virus and released it in the room.    	   私がうぬぼれ屋だったら ウイルスに入れて部屋に放ったでしょうね  
   So what was the next step?    	   次の進歩は何だったでしょうか？  
 Writing down the DNA was an interesting step.    	  DNAの書き出しは興味深い進歩でした  
 And that caused these cells --  that kept them happy for another billion years.    	  これらの細胞は その後 十億年 それで満足していましたが その後 物事を全く変えてしまう様な  
 But then there was another really interesting step  which is these cells started exchanging and communicating information,  so that they began to get communities of cells.    	  とても興味深い進歩が起きました 細胞間で情報の交換や伝達が始まり 集団を形成するようになったのです  
 I don't know if you know this,  but bacteria can actually exchange DNA.    	  細菌などは実際に DNAを交換することが出来ます  
 Now that's why, for instance,  antibiotic resistance has evolved.    	  このために 抗生物質耐性の 進化が起きたりします  
 Some bacteria figured out how to stay away from penicillin,  and it went around sort of creating its little DNA information  with other bacteria,  and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin,  because bacteria communicate.    	  ある細菌がペニシリンを回避する方法を発見し 他の細菌と共に 小さなDNA情報を 生成するような事をした結果、 現在 ペニシリン耐性菌が多く存在するのです 細菌同士のコミュニケーションが原因です  
 Now what this communication allowed  was communities to form  that, in some sense, were in the same boat together;  they were synergistic.    	  このコミュニケーションは コミュニティの形成を可能にしました 運命共同体の様な 相互に作用するもので  
 So they survived  or they failed together,  which means that if a community was very successful,  all the individuals in that community  were repeated more  and they were favored by evolution.    	  生存するも 失敗するも 一緒でした コミュニティーが繁栄すれば そのコミュニティーのメンバーは より頻繁に反復され 進化に有利になりました  
 Now the transition point happened  when these communities got so close  that, in fact, they got together  and decided to write down the whole recipe for the community  together on one string of DNA.    	  移行が始まったのは これらのコミュニティが ごく接近し 共同で コミュニティ全体の素を 一本のDNAに 書き出すようにしたときでした  
 And so the next stage that's interesting in life  took about another billion years.    	  この次の興味深い段階には もう10億年程かかりました  
 And at that stage,  we have multi-cellular communities,  communities of lots of different types of cells,  working together as a single organism.    	  この段階で 多細胞コミュニティが生まれました 多くの違った種類の細胞が １つの生物として働く共同体です  
 And in fact, we're such a multi-cellular community.    	  実際、私達も そのような多細胞コミュニティです  
 We have lots of cells  that are not out for themselves anymore.    	  私達の細胞の多くは、各々＿ 勝手に存在するわけではありません  
 Your skin cell is really useless  without a heart cell, muscle cell,  a brain cell and so on.    	  皮膚の細胞は 心臓や筋肉、脳やその他の＿ 細胞無しには全く役に立ちません  
 So these communities began to evolve  so that the interesting level on which evolution was taking place was no longer a cell,  but a community which we call an organism.    	  次第に これらのコミュニティが 個々の細胞のレベルではなく ”生物” という コミュニティーのレベルで  
 Now the next step that happened  is within these communities.    	  進化を始めたのです さて、次の段階は コミュニティ内で起こりました  
 These communities of cells,  again, began to abstract information.    	  これらの細胞のコミュニティは 再び、情報を抽象化し始めました  
 that did nothing but process information within the community.    	  そして コミュニティ内の情報処理を専門とする  
 And those are the neural structures.    	  特殊な構造を作り始めました これが神経構造です  
 So neurons are the information processing apparatus  that those communities of cells built up.    	  神経はそれらのコミュニティが作り上げた 情報処理器官です 次第に コミュニティの中で  
 And in fact, they began to get specialists in the community  and special structures  that were responsible for recording,  And that was the brains and the nervous system  of those communities. And that gave them an evolutionary advantage.    	  記憶や理解、学習に対応する 専門家や専門的な構造を 擁するようになり それらがそのコミュニティの 脳や神経システムとなりました これで進化的にさらに優位になりました  
 Because at that point,  an individual --  learning could happen  within the time span of a single organism,  instead of over this evolutionary time span.    	  なぜなら その時点で それまで 進化という時間枠で 行われていた学習が 一個体の寿命の長さで 行えるようになったからです  
 So an organism could, for instance,  learn not to eat a certain kind of fruit  because it tasted bad and it got sick last time it ate it.    	  不味くて 食べたら具合が悪くなった 特定の果物は 今後食べない、 という様なことを 学ぶことが  
 That could happen within the lifetime of a single organism,  whereas before they'd built these special information processing structures,  over hundreds of thousands of years  by the individuals dying off that ate that kind of fruit.    	  生物 一個体の生涯の間に可能になりました 一方、この様な情報処理構造を 形成する以前は 数十万年の歳月をかけて そのような果物を食べた個体が死に絶える事によって 進化的に学習されたのでした  
 So that nervous system,  the fact that they built these special information structures,  tremendously sped up the whole process of evolution.    	  この神経システム、 つまり この特殊な情報構造の形成が 進化全体の過程を劇的に速めました  
 Because evolution could now happen within an individual.    	  個体内で進化が可能になり  
 It could happen in learning time scales.    	  習得時間を単位に進化が進むようになったのです  
 But then what happened  of course, tricks of communicating.    	  その後 生き物は コミュニケーションの能力を  
 And for example,  the most sophisticated version that we're aware of is human language.    	  身に付けました その最も洗練された形である 人間の言語が その一例です  
 It's really a pretty amazing invention if you think about it.    	  考えてみると これはすごい発明です  
 Here I have a very complicated, messy,  confused idea in my head.    	  私が自分の頭の中にある 複雑で混乱した考えを  
 I'm sitting here making grunting sounds basically,  and hopefully constructing a similar messy, confused idea in your head  that bears some analogy to it.    	  ここに座って色々な音を出す事によって 皆さんの頭の中にも創り出そうとしている と言えばお分かりになると思いますが、  
 But we're taking something very complicated,  turning it into sound, sequences of sounds,  and producing something very complicated in your brain.    	  私達はとても複雑なものを 音や音節に変換し とても複雑な物を誰かの脳の中に作り上げているのです  
 So this allows us now  as a single organism.    	  これで 私達は 単体の生き物として  
 And so, in fact, what we've done  is we, humanity,  have started abstracting out.    	  機能し始めることができる様になりました ここで 私達は人類として 抽象化を始めたのです  
 We're going through the same levels  that multi-cellular organisms have gone through --  abstracting out our methods of recording,  presenting, processing information.    	  抽象化を始めたのです 多細胞生物が経験したのと 同様の段階を経て 情報を記録、表現、処理する方法を  
 So for example, the invention of language  was a tiny step in that direction.    	  抽象化しているのです 言語の発明は その方面への小さな一歩の例でした  
 Telephony, computers,  videotapes, CD-ROMs and so on  are all our specialized mechanisms  that we've now built within our society  for handling that information.    	  電話やコンピュータ ビデオテープやCD-ROMなどは それらの情報を扱うために 私達がこの社会に作った 専門の仕組みなのです  
 And it all connects us together  into something  that is much bigger  and much faster  and able to evolve  than what we were before.    	  そのような手段はどれも 私たちを 以前よりも より大きく、より速く より大きく、より速く 進化できるものとして 結び付けているのです  
 So now, evolution can take place  on a scale of microseconds.    	  今や進化は マイクロ秒の単位で起きうるのです  
 And you saw Ty's little evolutionary example  where he sort of did a little bit of evolution on the Convolution program right before your eyes.    	  先ほどTyの行った 畳み掛けプログラムで ちょっとした進化の例をご覧になったように  
 So now we've speeded up the time scales once again.    	  またここで時間軸が加速されたのです  
 So the first steps of the story that I told you about  took a billion years a piece.    	  最初にお話ししたいくつかの段階は それぞれ数十億年かかるものでした  
 And the next steps,  like nervous systems and brains,  took a few hundred million years.    	  次の段階は 神経システムや脳に関するもので 数億年かかるものでした  
 Then the next steps, like language and so on,  took less than a million years.    	  次の段階での 言語などは 百万年もかからないものでした  
 And these next steps, like electronics,  seem to be taking only a few decades.    	  そのまた次の段階の電気製品などは 数十年しかかからないようです  
 The process is feeding on itself  and becoming, I guess, autocatalytic is the word for it --  when something reinforces its rate of change.    	  この過程は自己増殖的で 変化自体が次の変化のレートを強化する 自己触媒的とも言える状態になりつつあります  
 The more it changes, the faster it changes.    	  変化すればする程、変化が速まるわけです  
 And I think that that's what we're seeing here in this explosion of curve.    	  グラフの急変化で起こっていることはは まさにこれです  
 We're seeing this process feeding back on itself.    	  この過程が次の過程に影響しているのです  
 Now I design computers for a living,  and I know that the mechanisms that I use to design computers  would be impossible without recent advances in computers.    	  私の本業はコンピューターの設計ですが 私自身 コンピューターの設計が 近年のコンピュータの進化そのものなくしては  
 So right now, what I do  is I design objects at such complexity  that it's really impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense.    	  出来ないことを 知っています 出来ないことを 知っています 特に最近は 昔ながらの感覚では設計を行うことができない程に とても複雑なものを設計しているのです  
 I don't know what every transistor in the connection machine does.    	  Connection Machine内のトランジスタの個々の役割も知りません。  
 There are billions of them.    	  無数にあるのです  
 Instead, what I do  and what the designers at Thinking Machines do  is we think at some level of abstraction  and then we hand it to the machine  and the machine takes it beyond what we could ever do,  much farther and faster than we could ever do.    	  代わりに、私や Thinking Machinesの設計者は、設計を_ ある程度抽象化されたレベルで考え 後は機械に渡して 任せるのです 機械は私たちの能力の限界を超え より優れた物を より速く作ってくれるのです  
 And in fact, sometimes it takes it by methods  that we don't quite even understand.    	  時には 完全には理解できない 方法によってそれを実現します 私が最近よく使っている  
 One method that's particularly interesting  is evolution itself.    	  特に興味深い方法は "進化"そのものです  
 So what we do  is we put inside the machine  a process of evolution  that takes place on the microsecond time scale.    	  やり方としては 機械の中に マイクロ秒単位で起きる 進化の過程を入れ込むのです  
 So for example,  in the most extreme cases,  we can actually evolve a program  by starting out with random sequences of instructions.    	  例えば、 最も極端な場合では でたらめな一揃いの命令から 実際にプログラムを進化させることができます  
 Say, "Computer, would you please make  a hundred million random sequences of instructions.    	  「コンピュータ」 「でたらめな命令のセットを一億通り作ってください」  
 Now would you please run all of those random sequences of instructions,  run all of those programs,  and pick out the ones that came closest to doing what I wanted."    	  「それら全てを実行してください」 「全てのプログラムを実行して、 私の希望に最適なものを選び出してください」と命令します  
 So in other words, I define what I wanted.    	  つまり ここで私の要求を定義します  
 Let's say I want to sort numbers,  as a simple example I've done it with.    	  以前に試した 簡単なもので 数字の並べ替えを 例にしますと  
 So find the programs that come closest to sorting numbers.    	  数字を並べ替えるのに最も適したプログラムを探すわけです  
 So of course, random sequences of instructions  are very unlikely to sort numbers,  so none of them will really do it.    	  当然 めちゃくちゃな命令のセットが 数字を並び替えるはずはないので それを本当に達成できるものは皆無です  
 But one of them, by luck,  may put two numbers in the right order.    	  しかし、偶然にも その中のひとつが ２つの数字を正しく並べたとすると、  
 And I say, "Computer,  of those random sequences that did the best job.    	  私は言います「コンピュータ」 「ランダムな並びの中から 最適な仕事を行った  
 Save those. Kill off the rest.    	  10％のものを選び出してください」  
 And now let's reproduce  the ones that sorted numbers the best.    	  「それらを保存し 残りを消去してください」 「そして 数字を上手く並び替えたものを  
 And let's reproduce them by a process of recombination  analogous to sex."    	  再生産してください」 「そして 生殖に似せた再結合の過程によって それらを再生産しましょう」  
 Take two programs and they produce children  by exchanging their subroutines,  and the children inherit the traits of the subroutines of the two programs.    	  二つのプログラムのサブルーチンを交換して 子供を作ります 子供は親プログラム両方のサブルーチンの特質を受け継ぎます  
 So I've got now a new generation of programs  that are produced by combinations  of the programs that did a little bit better job.    	  ここで 多少良い働きをした プログラム同士の結合から生み出された 新しい世代のプログラムが得られました  
 Say, "Please repeat that process."    	  「この過程を繰り返してください」  
 Score them again.    	  「再び評価してください」  
 Introduce some mutations perhaps.    	  「ちょっと突然変異を組み込み」  
 And try that again and do that for another generation.    	  「これを繰り返して もう一世代作ってください」と命令します  
 Well every one of those generations just takes a few milliseconds.    	  次の世代を作るのに ほんの数ミリ秒しかかかりません  
 of millions of years of evolution on that  within the computer in a few minutes,  or in the complicated cases, in a few hours.    	  つまり 数百万年かかる進化と 同等なことが コンピューターでは数分 あるいは 複雑なものでも数時間で できてしまうのです  
 At the end of that, I end up with programs  that are absolutely perfect at sorting numbers.    	  最終的には 数字の並べ替えに 完璧に対応した プログラムが出来ます  
 In fact, they are programs that are much more efficient  than programs I could have ever written by hand.    	  実際 私が書くどのプログラムよりも ずっと効果的なものになります  
 Now if I look at those programs,  I can't tell you how they work.    	  このプログラムを見ても 処理手順は見当がつきません  
 I've tried looking at them and telling you how they work.    	  皆さんに説明もできません  
 They're obscure, weird programs.    	  不明瞭で、変なプログラムですが  
 But they do the job.    	  仕事はきちんと実行します  
 And in fact, I know, I'm very confident that they do the job  because they come from a line  of hundreds of thousands of programs that did the job.    	  実際 性能の良さには確信があります 数十万もの性能の良い プログラムの子孫ですし  
 In fact, their life depended on doing the job.    	  仕事のできに 彼らの生死がかかっていましたからね  
   I was riding in a 747  and he pulls out this card and says, "Oh look. Look at this.    	   ある時、マーヴィン・ミンスキーと 747に同乗していたときのことです 彼はカードを取り出して言いました「これを見てくれ！」 「安全な飛行をご提供するため、  
 It says, 'This plane has hundreds of thousands of tiny parts working together to make you a safe flight.'  Doesn't that make you feel confident?"    	  この飛行機は何十万もの小さなパーツが連携して働いています、だってさ」 「安心だね」  
   In fact, we know that the engineering process doesn't work very well  when it gets complicated.    	   実際、ものが複雑になる程 工学プロセスはうまくいかないものです ですから、工学とは全く違うプロセスをする  
 So we're beginning to depend on computers  to do a process that's very different than engineering.    	  コンピュータに頼るようになってきています その方法で 普通の工学技術で作るよりも  
 And it lets us produce things of much more complexity  And yet, we don't quite understand the options of it.    	  ずっと複雑なものが可能になります しかしながら、その選択肢をよく分かっていません  
 So in a sense, it's getting ahead of us.    	  ある意味では、私達の先を行っています  
 We're now using those programs  to make much faster computers  so that we'll be able to run this process much faster.    	  今やそれらのプログラムを使って 更に速いコンピュータを作ろうとしています この過程をより速く実行できるようになるために  
 So it's feeding back on itself.    	  つまり、自己増殖的です  
 The thing is becoming faster  and that's why I think it seems so confusing.    	  物事はどんどん速くなっているので 理解が難しいのだと思います  
 Because all of these technologies are feeding back on themselves.    	  これら全てのテクノロジーが自己増殖的に進歩しています  
 We're taking off.    	  何か新しいことが始まりそうです  
 And what we are is we're at a point in time  which is analogous to when single-celled organisms  were turning into multi-celled organisms.    	  今 私達は、単細胞生物が 多細胞生物に変わろうとしていたときと 同様な時点にいます  
 So we're the amoebas  and we can't quite figure out what the hell this thing is we're creating.    	  つまり私達はアメーバであり 作り出そうとしている物が何だか解らないのです  
 We're right at that point of transition.    	  まさに移行点にいるのです  
 But I think that there really is something coming along after us.    	  私たちの後には 確実に何かが出てくるはずです  
 to think that we're the end product of evolution.    	  自身が進化の最終形態であると 思い込むのはとても高慢です  
 And I think all of us here  are a part of producing  whatever that next thing is.    	  そして、ここにいる全ての人が 次に来る何かを作るために 一役を担っていると思っています  
 So lunch is coming along,  and I think I will stop at that point,  before I get selected out.    	  それでは もうすぐお昼なので 淘汰されてしまう前に ここで終わりにしましょう  
 I think we have to do something  about a piece of the culture of medicine that has to change.    	  医療の文化には改めるべき点があり 何か手を打つべきだと考えています  
 And I think it starts with one physician, and that's me.    	  一人の医師から始まることなら まず私から始めます  
 And maybe I've been around long enough  that I can afford to give away some of my false prestige  to be able to do that.    	  長いこと医師をやってきたので 長年積み重ねた評判の一部を犠牲に しても その一助としたいと考えます  
 Before I actually begin the meat of my talk,  let's begin with a bit of baseball.    	  話の本題の前に 少し野球の話をさせてください  
 Hey, why not?    	  かまわないですか  
 We're near the end, we're getting close to the World Series.    	  シーズンも終盤 ワールドシリーズ目前です  
 We all love baseball, don't we?    	  みなさんも野球はお好きでしょう？  
   Baseball is filled with some amazing statistics.    	   野球に関しては面白い統計がたくさんあります  
 And there's hundreds of them.    	  何百というデータがあります  
 "Moneyball" is about to come out, and it's all about statistics  and using statistics to build a great baseball team.    	  データ野球がテーマの「マネー・ボール」も公開間近です データを活用して強いチームを作る映画です  
 I'm going to focus on one stat  that I hope a lot of you have heard of.    	  ここではみなさんも聞いたことがあるはずの データの一つに絞ってお話しします  
 It's called batting average.    	  打率と呼ばれるものです  
 So we talk about a 300, a batter who bats 300.    	  ３割打者と言えばヒットが３割の選手です  
 That means that ballplayer batted safely, hit safely  three times out of 10 at bats.    	  この選手が10回打席に立つと 3回はヒットを打って出塁するのです  
 That means hit the ball into the outfield,  it dropped, it didn't get caught,  and whoever tried to throw it to first base didn't get there in time  and the runner was safe.    	  ボールが外野まで飛んで 捕球されずに転がれば そのボールが一塁に投げられても ボールより先に着けば打者はセーフです  
 Three times out of 10.    	  10打席で3回です  
 Do you know what they call a 300 hitter  in Major League Baseball?    	  メジャーリーグで3割打者が 何と呼ばれるかわかりますか？  
 Good, really good,  maybe an all-star.    	  好打者 オールスター級の好打者です  
 Do you know what they call  a 400 baseball hitter?    	  4割打者が何と呼ばれるか わかりますか？  
 That's somebody who hit, by the way,  four times safely out of every 10.    	  10回打席に立つと4回 安打を 打つ選手のことです  
 Legendary --  as in Ted Williams legendary --  the last Major League Baseball player  to hit over 400 during a regular season.    	  伝説の名手 — テッド・ウィリアムス以来 メジャーリーグの選手で シーズンを4割で終えた者はいません  
 Now let's take this back into my world of medicine  where I'm a lot more comfortable,  or perhaps a bit less comfortable  after what I'm going to talk to you about.    	  さて 医療の話に戻りましょう 私にとって断然話しやすい話題です ただこれからする話のことも考えると 少し居心地が悪くなります  
 Suppose you have appendicitis  and you're referred to a surgeon  who's batting 400 on appendectomies.    	  さて 虫垂炎の患者を担当する 外科医の虫垂切除の成功率が 4割だったらどうでしょう  
   Somehow this isn't working out, is it?    	   これはまずいですね  
 Now suppose you live  in a certain part of a certain remote place  and you have a loved one  who has blockages in two coronary arteries  and your family doctor refers that loved one to a cardiologist  But, but, you know what? She's doing a lot better this year. She's on the comeback trail.    	  もしもあなたがどこか とても 辺鄙な所に暮らしていて 大事なご家族の ２本ある冠動脈に閉塞が生じて かかりつけの医師から紹介された 心臓外科医の 血管形成手術の成功率が２割だったらどうでしょう  
 And she's hitting a 257.    	  いや でも いいお知らせです  
 Somehow this isn't working.    	  今季は好調で みごと復活を遂げて  
 But I'm going to ask you a question.    	  2割5分7厘まで良くなっています—  
 What do you think a batting average  for a cardiac surgeon or a nurse practitioner  or an orthopedic surgeon,  is supposed to be?    	  ありえないことです では質問します 心臓外科医や 上級看護師 整形外科医や 産婦人科医や救急救命士の  
 1,000, very good.    	  平均の成績は  
 Now truth of the matter is,  nobody knows in all of medicine  what a good surgeon  or physician or paramedic  is supposed to bat.    	  どれほどだと思いますか 10割 とてもいい答えです ただ 実際のところ 外科医や内科医や 救急救命士の成功率が  
 What we do though is we send each one of them, including myself,  with the admonition, be perfect.    	  どれぐらいなら優秀といえるのか 医療に携わる誰一人として知りません それでも 私も含めた一人ひとりは 完璧であれという忠告とともに  
 Never ever, ever make a mistake,  but you worry about the details, about how that's going to happen.    	  世の中に送り出されます 「絶対に絶対に失敗するな 細部に気を配れ 失敗の前兆に気を配れ」と  
 And that was the message that I absorbed  when I was in med school.    	  医科大学にいるときには こんなことを学びました  
 I was an obsessive compulsive student.    	  私は完璧主義の学生でした  
 In high school, a classmate once said  that Brian Goldman would study for a blood test.    	  高校の時には同級生からこう言われました 血液テストのためにテスト勉強しそうだ  
   And so I did.    	   そんな学生でした  
 And I studied in my little garret  at the nurses' residence at Toronto General Hospital,  not far from here.    	  この近くにあるトロント総合病院の 看護師寮の屋根裏の 小さな自室で勉強しました  
 And I memorized everything.    	  何もかも暗記しました  
 I memorized in my anatomy class  the origins and exertions of every muscle,  every branch of every artery that came off the aorta,  differential diagnoses obscure and common.    	  解剖学の授業では すべての筋肉を端から端まで覚え 大動脈から分かれる全ての動脈の名前や 鑑別診断の難しいものから簡単なものまで覚え  
 I even knew the differential diagnosis  in how to classify renal tubular acidosis.    	  尿細管性アシドーシスの種類を見分ける 鑑別診断も覚えました  
 And all the while,  I was amassing more and more knowledge.    	  こうしてどんどん学んで より多くの知識を身につけました  
 And I did well, I graduated with honors,  And I came out of medical school  that if I memorized everything and knew everything,  or as much as possible,  as close to everything as possible,  that it would immunize me against making mistakes.    	  私は頑張って 賞をもらえる— 優秀な成績で卒業しました 医学部を卒業したとき 私はこう思いました 少なくとも可能な限り— 全てを覚え 可能な限り— 全てを知っていれば ワクチンも効いて失敗しなくなるだろう  
 And it worked  for a while,  until I met Mrs. Drucker.    	  実際しばらくは 順調でしたが やがてドラッカーさんに出会いました  
 I was a resident at a teaching hospital here in Toronto  when Mrs. Drucker was brought to the emergency department  of the hospital where I was working.    	  トロントで研修医として勤めていた 病院の救急外来に ドラッカーさんは 運び込まれて来ました  
 At the time I was assigned to the cardiology service  on a cardiology rotation.    	  当時 私は循環器科に所属し 当直にあたっていました  
 And it was my job,  when the emergency staff called for a cardiology consult,  to see that patient in emerg.    	  救急の担当者から循環器科へ 依頼があったら 患者を診察し 指導医に報告するのが  
 and to report back to my attending.    	  私の仕事でした  
 And I saw Mrs. Drucker, and she was breathless.    	  ドラッカーさんを診察すると息もできず  
 And when I listened to her, she was making a wheezy sound.    	  ゼーゼーと音をたてています  
 And when I listened to her chest with a stethoscope,  I could hear crackly sounds on both sides  that told me that she was in congestive heart failure.    	  胸に聴診器をあててみると 両側からピチピチという音が聞こえ うっ血性心不全だと分かりました  
 This is a condition in which the heart fails,  and instead of being able to pump all the blood forward,  some of the blood backs up into the lung, the lungs fill up with blood,  and that's why you have shortness of breath.    	  これは心臓に問題が生じて 血液を全部送り出すことができずに 肺に逆流した結果 肺が血液で一杯の状態です それで彼女は呼吸が苦しくなったのです  
 And that wasn't a difficult diagnosis to make.    	  この診断を下すことは難しくはありませんでした  
 I made it and I set to work treating her.    	  診断を下すと 私は処置を開始しました  
 I gave her aspirin. I gave her medications to relieve the strain on her heart.    	  アスピリンを与え 心臓の緊張を解く薬を投与しました 利尿剤を与えて  
 I gave her medications that we call diuretics, water pills,  And over the course of the next hour and a half or two,  she started to feel better.    	  体内の水分の排泄を促すようにしました 一時間半から二時間もすると 患者は回復し始めたので  
 And I felt really good.    	  私は手応えを感じていました  
 And that's when I made my first mistake;  I sent her home.    	  そしてそのとき 私は最初の間違いを犯しました 彼女を帰宅させたのです  
 Actually, I made two more mistakes.    	  おまけに さらに2つの失敗を重ねました 私の指導医に知らせることなく  
 I sent her home  without speaking to my attending.    	  彼女を帰宅させました 指導医に電話して経過説明するという  
 I didn't pick up the phone and do what I was supposed to do,  which was call my attending and run the story by him  so he would have a chance to see her for himself. And he knew her,  he would have been able to furnish additional information about her.    	  私の役割を果たさなかったのです そうすれば 指導医は自ら診察したはずです 指導医は患者のことを知っていたので その情報を貰えたはずでした  
 Maybe I did it for a good reason.    	  私が 良かれと思ってやったことでした  
 Maybe I didn't want to be a high-maintenance resident.    	  私は 手のかかる研修医にはなりたくはなく  
 Maybe I wanted to be so successful  and so able to take responsibility  that I would do so  and I would be able to take care of my attending's patients  without even having to contact him.    	  見事にやり遂げて 診療を任されることを望んでいました 指導医の患者であっても 彼に相談することすらせずに 治療が できるようになりたかったのでした  
 The second mistake that I made was worse.    	  2つ目の失敗はさらにひどいものです  
 In sending her home,  I disregarded a little voice deep down inside  that was trying to tell me,  "Goldman, not a good idea. Don't do this."    	  彼女を帰らせるときに 心の底の小さなつぶやきに 耳を傾けなかったのです 「ゴールドマン まずいよ やめよう」  
 In fact, so lacking in confidence was I  that I actually asked the nurse  who was looking after Mrs. Drucker,  "Do you think it's okay if she goes home?"    	  自分でもまったく自信がなかったので ドラッカーさんの手当をしていた看護師に こう尋ねたのでした 「家に帰して大丈夫だと思うかい？」  
 And the nurse thought about it  and said very matter-of-factly, "Yeah, I think she'll do okay."    	  看護師は少し考えて 平然と答えました「大丈夫だと思う」  
 I can remember that like it was yesterday.    	  このやりとりを昨日のことのように覚えています  
 So I signed the discharge papers,  and an ambulance came, paramedics came to take her home.    	  退院の書類にサインして 救急車が着くと 救急隊員が来て彼女を帰しました  
 And I went back to my work on the wards.    	  私は病棟の仕事に戻りました  
 All the rest of that day,  that afternoon,  I had this kind of gnawing feeling inside my stomach.    	  その後一日中 午後ずっと 胃のあたりが落ち着かない感じでした  
 But I carried on with my work.    	  でも仕事を続けていました  
 And at the end of the day, I packed up to leave the hospital  and walked to the parking lot  to take my car and drive home  when I did something that I don't usually do.    	  一日が終わると 帰るために荷物をまとめ 自分の車の停めてある 駐車場まで歩いていく途中に 普段とは違うことをしました  
 I walked through the emergency department on my way home.    	  帰り道に救急部に立ち寄ったのです  
 And it was there that another nurse,  not the nurse who was looking after Mrs. Drucker before, but another nurse,  said three words to me  that are the three words  that most emergency physicians I know dread.    	  救急部では別の看護師が —さきほどドラッカーさんの手当をしていたのとは別の看護師が こんな一言を口にしました 私が知る救急医は全員 この一言を恐れます  
 Others in medicine dread them as well,  but there's something particular about emergency medicine  because we see patients so fleetingly.    	  医療に関わる者は皆 この一言を恐れますが 救急医療ではさらに特別な一言です なぜなら次から次へと患者を診るからです  
 The three words are:  Do you remember?    	  こんな一言です 「覚えていますか?」  
 "Do you remember that patient you sent home?"    	  「帰宅させた患者さんのことを覚えていますか?」  
 the other nurse asked matter-of-factly.    	  別の看護師は淡々と尋ねました  
 "Well she's back,"  in just that tone of voice.    	  「また運ばれてきました」 同じ口調で続けました  
 Well she was back all right.    	  戻ってきたのはともかくとして  
 She was back and near death.    	  瀕死の状態で戻ってきたのです  
 About an hour after she had arrived home,  after I'd sent her home,  she collapsed and her family called 911  and the paramedics brought her back to the emergency department  where she had a blood pressure of 50,  which is in severe shock.    	  病院から帰されて 家に帰っておよそ一時間すると 彼女は倒れて家族が救急通報しました 救急隊員が彼女を救急病棟に連れてくると 血圧が 50 しかなく つまり深刻なショック状態でした  
 And she was barely breathing and she was blue.    	  息も絶え絶えで真っ青になり  
 And the emerg. staff pulled out all the stops.    	  救急のチームは全力を尽くしました  
 They gave her medications to raise her blood pressure.    	  血圧を上げる薬を与え  
 They put her on a ventilator.    	  酸素吸入を行いました  
 And I was shocked  and shaken to the core.    	  私はショックで 体が芯から震えました  
 And I went through this roller coaster,  because after they stabilized her,  she went to the intensive care unit,  and I hoped against hope that she would recover.    	  降りられないジェットコースターです 彼女は容態が安定すると 集中治療室に送られました 彼女の— 回復だけが 私の一縷の望みでした  
 And over the next two or three days,  it was clear that she was never going to wake up.    	  二三日経つともう 彼女が 起き上がれないことがはっきりしました  
 She had irreversible brain damage.    	  脳の損傷は回復不能でした  
 And the family gathered.    	  家族が集まり  
 And over the course of the next eight or nine days,  they resigned themselves to what was happening.    	  その日から九日の間の病状を見ているうちに 家族の方も覚悟を決めて  
 And at about the nine day mark, they let her go --  Mrs. Drucker,  a wife, a mother  and a grandmother.    	  九日目に彼女は亡くなりました ドラッカーさんは 妻であり 母であり 祖母でありました  
 They say you never forget the names  of those who die.    	  死んだ患者の名前は 忘れないと言います  
 And that was my first time to be acquainted with that.    	  これを実感したのは このときが初めてでした  
 Over the next few weeks,  I beat myself up  and I experienced for the first time  the unhealthy shame that exists  in our culture of medicine --  where I felt alone, isolated,  not feeling the healthy kind of shame that you feel,  because you can't talk about it with your colleagues.    	  そのあと数週間にわたって 私は自分をさいなみ続け そのとき初めて感じたのですが 医療の文化の中にある恥の感覚は 健全な物ではありません そのとき 私は一人で孤立してしまい 普通なら感じる— 健全な恥を覚えられませんでした そのことを同僚と話せなかったからです  
 You know that healthy kind,  when you betray a secret that a best friend made you promise never to reveal  and then you get busted  and then your best friend confronts you  and you have terrible discussions,  but at the end of it all that sick feeling guides you  and you say, I'll never make that mistake again.    	  健全な恥の感覚とは 親友が絶対に守れといった秘密を裏切ってしまい それがばれて 親友に目の前で非難されて ろくな弁解もできず でも最後にはすまなかったと思う気持ちから こんな失敗は二度としないと誓うようなもの  
 And you make amends and you never make that mistake again.    	  お詫びをして二度と失敗は繰り返さないのです  
 That's the kind of shame that is a teacher.    	  こういう恥の感覚からは教訓が得られます  
 The unhealthy shame I'm talking about  is the one that makes you so sick inside.    	  私の言っている恥の不健全さは 人を精神的に追い込みます  
 It's the one that says,  not that what you did was bad,  but that you are bad.    	  思い詰めた こんな心の声です 「君のしたことが悪かったのではない 君が最悪なんだ」  
 And it was what I was feeling.    	  私はそんなことばかり考えていました  
 And it wasn't because of my attending; he was a doll.    	  私の指導医のせいではありません 彼は面倒見よく  
 He talked to the family, and I'm quite sure that he smoothed things over  and made sure that I didn't get sued.    	  遺族と話して問題をうまく収め 私が訴えられないようにしてくれました  
 And I kept asking myself these questions.    	  私はこんなふうに自問し続けました  
 Why didn't I ask my attending? Why did I send her home?    	  なぜ指導医に聞かなかったのか なぜ帰らせたのか  
 And then at my worst moments:  Why did I make such a stupid mistake?    	  最悪のときにはこう思っていました どうしてあんな愚かな失敗をしたのか  
 Why did I go into medicine?    	  なんで医学の道に進んだのか  
 Slowly but surely,  it lifted.    	  ゆっくりとしかし着実に この感覚は和らいでいきました  
 I began to feel a bit better.    	  私は少しずつ前向きになり始めました  
 And on a cloudy day,  there was a crack in the clouds and the sun started to come out  and I wondered,  maybe I could feel better again.    	  ある曇った日のことでした 雲の隙間から日が射し始めたとき 私はふと やり直せるかもしれないと思いました  
 And I made myself a bargain  that if only I redouble my efforts to be perfect  and never make another mistake again,  please make the voices stop.    	  私は自分自身とこんな約束をしました 「完璧であるための努力を倍増させて もう決して過ちは犯さないから 心の声よ黙ってくれないか」  
 And they did.    	  すると声は止みました  
 And I went back to work.    	  私は仕事に復帰しました  
 And then it happened again.    	  そして また失敗をしてしまいました  
 Two years later I was an attending in the emergency department  at a community hospital just north of Toronto,  and I saw a 25 year-old man with a sore throat.    	  2年後のこと 私はトロントの北に接する 地域病院で救急部に配属されました 喉の痛みを訴える25歳の男性を診察しました  
 It was busy, I was in a bit of a hurry.    	  忙しい日で 私も気が急いていました  
 He kept pointing here.    	  彼はずっと喉を指差していました  
 I looked at his throat, it was a little bit pink.    	  喉を見ると 赤みを帯びていました  
 And I gave him a prescription for penicillin  and sent him on his way.    	  ペニシリンの処方を出して 彼を帰しました  
 And even as he was walking out the door,  he was still sort of pointing to his throat.    	  彼は診察室を出るときにも 喉が気になるようで まだ指差していました  
 And two days later I came to do my next emergency shift,  and that's when my chief asked to speak to me quietly in her office.    	  2日後に次の救急シフトが巡って来ました 話があるから来てほしいと救急医療部長に言われました  
 And she said the three words:  Do you remember?    	  部長は例のひとことを言いました 「覚えていますか?」  
 "Do you remember that patient you saw with the sore throat?"    	  喉が痛いと言った患者を診察したことは覚えていますか?  
 Well it turns out, he didn't have a strep throat.    	  結局 咽頭炎ではなかったのです 命に関わる危険もある 喉頭蓋炎という  
 He had a potentially life-threatening condition  called epiglottitis. You can Google it,  but it's an infection, not of the throat, but of the upper airway,  and it can actually cause the airway to close.    	  病気だったのです グーグルで調べればわかります これは感染症でノドではなく上気道の病気です 気道を塞いでしまうことがあります  
 And fortunately he didn't die.    	  幸いにも彼は亡くなりませんでした  
 He was placed on intravenous antibiotics  and he recovered after a few days.    	  抗生物質の静脈投与を受け そのあと数日で回復しました  
 And I went through the same period of shame and recriminations  and felt cleansed and went back to work,  until it happened again and again and again.    	  そして私は再び恥と自己批判の時期を過ごし それを何とか振り切って仕事に復帰しました そのサイクルを何度も繰り返しました  
 Twice in one emergency shift, I missed appendicitis.    	  一度の救急シフトのうちに虫垂炎を2例見逃したこともあります  
 Now that takes some doing,  especially when you work in a hospital  that at the time saw but 14 people a night.    	  これは何か手を打たなければいけません 勤務先の病院に一晩で 14人もの急患が運び込まれるようならなおさらです  
 Now in both cases, I didn't send them home  and I don't think there was any gap in their care.    	  でも今度は二人とも帰らせはしませんでした 手当に落ち度があったとは思いません  
 One I thought had a kidney stone.    	  一人は腎臓結石を疑いました  
 I ordered a kidney X-ray. When it turned out to be normal,  my colleague who was doing a reassessment of the patient  noticed some tenderness in the right lower quadrant and called the surgeons.    	  X線検査では異常がないと分かった頃に 再び患者を診察した同僚が 右下腹部に圧痛を見つけて 外科医を呼びました  
 The other one had a lot of diarrhea.    	  もう一人はひどい下痢だったので  
 I ordered some fluids to rehydrate him  and asked my colleague to reassess him.    	  水分補給の輸液点滴を指示した上で 同僚にもう一度診察を頼んだのでした  
 And he did  and when he noticed some tenderness in the right lower quadrant, called the surgeons.    	  彼は患者を診察すると 右下腹部に圧痛を見つけて 外科医を  
 In both cases,  they had their operations and they did okay.    	  呼びました どちらの患者も 手術が行われ 無事に治癒しました  
 But each time,  they were gnawing at me, eating at me.    	  しかし毎回 例の声が私をさいなみ悩ませました  
 And I'd like to be able to say to you  that my worst mistakes only happened in the first five years of practice  as many of my colleagues say, which is total B.S.    	  多くの同僚たちと同じように 最悪の失敗は最初の5年間のうちに済ませた— と言いたいのですが それは大嘘です  
   Some of my doozies have been in the last five years.    	   ここ5年でも 私は手痛いミスを幾つかやらかしています  
 Alone, ashamed and unsupported.    	  孤独で 恥ずかしく 支援もありません  
 Here's the problem:  If I can't come clean  and talk about my mistakes,  if I can't find the still-small voice  that tells me what really happened,  how can I share it with my colleagues?    	  これが問題なのです もし 自分の失敗の話を 白状することができなかったり 何が起きていたのかを告げる ささやき声に気づけないとしたら どうして同僚に伝えられるでしょうか  
 How can I teach them about what I did  so that they don't do the same thing?    	  同じ失敗を繰り返させないために 周りに経験をどう伝えていけば良いでしょうか  
 If I were to walk into a room --  like right now, I have no idea what you think of me.    	  今日のように どこかで人を集めて こんな話をしたらみなさんにどう受け止められるでしょうか  
 When was the last time you heard somebody talk  about failure after failure after failure?    	  誰かが こんな失敗に次ぐ失敗の話を するのを聞いたことはありますか？  
 Oh yeah, you go to a cocktail party  and you might hear about some other doctor,  but you're not going to hear somebody  talking about their own mistakes.    	  たしかに カクテルパーティーの場でなら ひどい医者の話を聞くかもしれません でもそれは自分がした失敗のー 話ではありません  
 If I were to walk into a room filled with my colleages  and ask for their support right now  and start to tell what I've just told you right now,  I probably wouldn't get through two of those stories  before they would start to get really uncomfortable,  somebody would crack a joke,  they'd change the subject and we would move on.    	  部屋いっぱいの医師達の前に出向き こんな活動を支援してほしいと訴え まさに今日のような話をしようとしても 二つ目のエピソードの途中ぐらいで 医師達は不愉快に感じ始め 誰かがジョークを飛ばして 話題を変えてしまい 何も変わりません  
 And in fact, if I knew and my colleagues knew  that one of my orthopedic colleagues took off the wrong leg in my hospital,  believe me, I'd have trouble  making eye contact with that person.    	  整形外科の同僚が反対の足の方を 切断してしまったと知ったら 私も同僚たちも その医師に対して目を合わせるのも 辛くなることでしょう  
 That's the system that we have.    	  我々のシステムはそういうものです  
 It's a complete denial of mistakes.    	  失敗は完全に否定されるのです  
 It's a system  in which there are two kinds of physicians --  those who make mistakes  and those who don't,  those who can't handle sleep deprivation and those who can,  those who have lousy outcomes  and those who have great outcomes.    	  このシステムでは 人は2種類に分類されます 失敗する人間と 失敗しない人間です 睡眠不足に耐えられる人と耐えられない人 お粗末な結果を出す人と すばらしい結果を出す人に分かれます  
 And it's almost like an ideological reaction,  like the antibodies begin to attack that person.    	  まるで政治的な先入観のようであり 抗体が守るべき体を攻撃し始めるようなものです  
 And we have this idea  that if we drive the people who make mistakes  out of medicine,  what will we be left with, but a safe system.    	  我々はこんな考えをもっています 失敗を繰り返す人を 医療の世界から追放すれば 後には安全な人だけのシステムが残るという塩梅です  
 But there are two problems with that.    	  この考えには2つの問題があります  
 of medical broadcasting and journalism,  I've made a personal study of medical malpractice and medical errors  to learn everything I can,  from one of the first articles I wrote for the Toronto Star  to my show "White Coat, Black Art."    	  医学系の放送とジャーナリズムに 20年ほど関わってきた中で 医療過誤と医療ミスについて 個人的にできる限りの研究をしてきました トロント・スター紙の記事を手始めに 「白衣と黒魔術」という番組も作ってきました  
 And what I've learned  is that errors are absolutely ubiquitous.    	  私が学んだことは 誤りは実にいたるところにあるということです  
 We work in a system  where errors happen every day,  where one in 10 medications  are either the wrong medication given in hospital  or at the wrong dosage,  where hospital-acquired infections are getting more and more numerous,  causing havoc and death.    	  我々が働いているシステムでは 毎日のように間違いが発生し 病院で渡される10の薬剤のうち一つは 渡された薬が間違っているか 投与量が間違っています 院内感染の発生件数はうなぎのぼりで 猛威をふるい 死亡事故さえ生じています  
 In this country,  as many as 24,000 Canadians die  of preventable medical errors.    	  カナダ国内では 2万4千人の国民が 回避可能な— 医療過誤で亡くなりました  
 In the United States, the Institute of Medicine pegged it at 100,000.    	  医学研究所によれば アメリカでは10万人が犠牲者とされます  
 In both cases, these are gross underestimates,  because we really aren't ferreting out the problem  as we should.    	  どちらの数字も 全くの過小見積もりでしょう なぜなら 表沙汰になるべき問題も 隠されたままだからです  
 And here's the thing.    	  こういう問題もあります  
 In a hospital system  where medical knowledge is doubling  every two or three years, we can't keep up with it.    	  病院という仕組み自体が 2-3年ごとに倍増する医学の知識に 追いつけないのです  
 Sleep deprivation is absolutely pervasive.    	  医師の睡眠不足も至る所で見られますが  
 We can't get rid of it.    	  それを避けることができません  
 We have our cognitive biases,  so that I can take a perfect history on a patient with chest pain.    	  認知のバイアスもあります 胸の痛みを訴える患者の病歴を完全に把握できるとしましょう  
 Now take the same patient with chest pain,  make them moist and garrulous  and put a little bit of alcohol on their breath,  and suddenly my history is laced with contempt.    	  しかし同じ患者でも 胸の痛みを訴えるときに 泣きながら くどくどと説明し 患者の息が少しアルコール臭かったら 軽蔑の念が 病歴の理解に混ざり  
 I don't take the same history.    	  病歴の把握が同じようにはできません  
 I'm not a robot;  I don't do things the same way each time.    	  私はロボットではないのです 仕事のやり方はいつも同じとは限りません  
 And my patients aren't cars;  they don't tell me their symptoms in the same way each time.    	  そして患者達は自動車とは違います 症状の説明もいつも同じではありません  
 Given all of that, mistakes are inevitable.    	  こういったすべての理由で 間違いは回避できません  
 So if you take the system, as I was taught,  and weed out all the error-prone health professionals,  well there won't be anybody left.    	  私が教わってきたシステムに従って 失敗をした医療従事者を排除していくと 誰もいなくなってしまうでしょう  
 And you know that business  about people not wanting  to talk about their worst cases?    	  そんな職業においては 人々は自分の最悪の失敗について 話したくないのです  
 On my show, on "White Coat, Black Art,"  I made it a habit of saying, "Here's my worst mistake,"  I would say to everybody  from paramedics to the chief of cardiac surgery,  "Here's my worst mistake," blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,  "What about yours?" and I would point the microphone towards them.    	  私の番組 「白衣と黒魔術」では 「これが私の最悪の失敗です」と いつも誰にでも伝えていました 救急隊員にも心臓外科長にも 自分の最悪の失敗の経験を話した上で 「あなたの失敗は？」とマイクを向けるのです  
 And their pupils would dilate,  they would recoil,  then they would look down and swallow hard  and start to tell me their stories.    	  すると彼らは目を見開いて たじろいだようになったり うつむいて ごくりとつばを飲み込むと 自分の失敗について語り始めます  
 They want to tell their stories. They want to share their stories.    	  語りたかったし 聞いて欲しかったのです  
 They want to be able to say,  "Look, don't make the same mistake I did."    	  こう言えたらいい と思っていたのです 「いいか おなじ失敗をするんじゃない」  
 What they need is an environment to be able to do that.    	  そういうことのできる環境が必要なのです  
 What they need is a redefined medical culture.    	  医療の文化を改める必要があるのです  
 And it starts with one physician at a time.    	  医師一人ずつが変わることから始まります  
 The redefined physician is human,  knows she's human,  accepts it, isn't proud of making mistakes,  but strives to learn one thing  from what happened  that she can teach to somebody else.    	  再定義された医師は人間であり 人間としての自分を知って受け入れ 失敗を自慢には思わないが 起こしてしまったことから 何か一つでも学ぼうとし それを他の人にも教えようとします  
 She shares her experience with others.    	  自分の経験を他の人に伝えます  
 She's supportive when other people talk about their mistakes.    	  他の人が自分の失敗を話すときには励まします  
 And she points out other people's mistakes,  not in a gotcha way,  but in a loving, supportive way  so that everybody can benefit.    	  他人の失敗も指摘します 見逃さない ということではなく 誠実な支援の想いがあれば 誰にとってもメリットが生じます  
 And she works in a culture of medicine that acknowledges  that human beings run the system,  and when human beings run the system, they will make mistakes from time to time.    	  そんな医師が働いている文化では システムを動かしているのは 人間であることに気付き 人間がシステムを動かすなら 間違えることもあると認めます  
 So the system is evolving  to create backups  that make it easier to detect those mistakes  that humans inevitably make  and also fosters in a loving, supportive way  places where everybody who is observing in the health care system  can actually point out things that could be potential mistakes  and is rewarded for doing so,  and especially people like me, when we do make mistakes,  we're rewarded for coming clean.    	  そうすることで システムは進化していって 仕組みができ上がります 人間がどうしても起こしてしまう 間違いを気づきやすいものにします また 誠実な支援の心のある場を育みます 医療システムに目の届く誰もが 間違いがおきる可能性がある事柄を 指摘することができて そういう指摘が報われるような場です とりわけ 実際に失敗したときに 私のようにそれを告白した人が報われる場です  
 My name is Brian Goldman.    	  私の名前はブライアン・ゴールドマン  
 I am a redefined physician.    	  定義し直された こんな医師です  
 I'm human. I make mistakes.    	  人間であり間違えることもあります  
 I'm sorry about that,  but I strive to learn one thing  that I can pass on to other people.    	  申し訳なく思いますが 間違いから得た教訓を他の人に伝えようと 努力している医師です  
 I still don't know what you think of me,  but I can live with that.    	  皆さんが私をどのように思われたかわかりませんが 後悔はしません  
 And let me close with three words of my own:  I do remember.    	  私の最後のひとことです 私は覚えています  
 Do you know how many choices you make  in a typical day?    	  皆さんは普段自分が １日にいくつの選択をしているか知っていますか？ 普段自分が１週間にいくつの  
 Do you know how many choices you make in typical week?    	  選択をするか知っていますか？  
 I recently did a survey  with over 2,000 Americans,  and the average number of choices  that the typical American reports making  is about 70 in a typical day.    	  最近２千人以上の アメリカ人を対象に 調査を行ったのですが 典型的なアメリカ人が 通常１日に下す決断の数は平均約70でした  
 There was also recently a study done with CEOs  in which they followed CEOs around for a whole week.    	  CEOを対象にした調査も最近行われました CEOたちに１週間密着した調査です  
 And these scientists simply documented all the various tasks  that these CEOs engaged in  and how much time they spent engaging  in making decisions related to these tasks.    	  研究者らはCEOが従事した様々な職務を すべて記録し これらに関連した決断に 費やした時間を記録しました  
 And they found that the average CEO  engaged in about 139 tasks in a week.    	  そして普通CEOは１週間に大体139個の職務に 従事していることが分かりました  
 Each task was made up of many, many, many sub-choices of course.    	  当然それぞれの職務は多くの細かい選択肢で成り立っています  
 50 percent of their decisions  were made in nine minutes or less.    	  CEOの意思決定の50％は ９分以内に行われていました  
 Only about 12 percent of the decisions  did they make an hour or more of their time.    	  CEOが１時間以上費やしたのは 意思決定のうちの僅か約12％でした  
 Think about your own choices.    	  自分自身の選択はどうでしょう？  
 Do you know how many choices  make it into your nine minute category  versus your one hour category?    	  皆さんは自分の選択のいくつが ９分内のもので いくつが １時間以上のものか知っていますか？  
 How well do you think you're doing  at managing those choices?    	  自分がこれらの選択肢の対処を どれ程うまく行っていると思いますか？  
 Today I want to talk  about one of the biggest modern day choosing problems that we have,  which is the choice overload problem.    	  私が今日話したいのは 現代の選択に関する一番大きな問題である 過剰な選択肢の問題です  
 I want to talk about the problem  and some potential solutions.    	  この問題といくつか役に立ちそうな 解決策について話したいと思います  
 Now as I talk about this problem,  I'm going to have some questions for you  and I'm going to want to know your answers.    	  さてこの問題について話しながら 皆さんにいくつか質問しますが 皆さんの回答を知りたいので  
 So when I ask you a question,  since I'm blind,  only raise your hand if you want to burn off some calories.    	  私が質問をしたら 私は盲目ですので カロリーを消費したい人だけ手を挙げてください  
   Otherwise, when I ask you a question,  and if your answer is yes,  I'd like you to clap your hands.    	   それ以外の場合 私が質問をして 回答が「はい」の場合 拍手をしてください  
 So for my first question for you today:  Are you guys ready to hear about the choice overload problem?    	  では今日の最初の質問です： 過剰な選択肢の問題の話を始めていいですか？  
   Thank you.    	  （拍手） ありがとう  
 So when I was a graduate student at Stanford University,  I used to go to this very, very upscale grocery store;  at least at that time it was truly upscale.    	  スタンフォードの大学院生だった頃 あるとても高級な食料品店によく行っていました 少なくとも当時は本当に高級な  
 It was a store called Draeger's.    	  Draeger'sという店でした  
 Now this store, it was almost like going to an amusement park.    	  さてこの店に行くのはまるで遊園地に行くようでした  
 They had 250 different kinds of mustards and vinegars  and over 500 different kinds  of fruits and vegetables  and more than two dozen different kinds of bottled water --  and this was during a time when we actually used to drink tap water.    	  この店には250種類のマスタードや酢があり 500種類以上の 果物や野菜 さらに 20種類以上のミネラルウォーターがありました これは人々がまだ実際に水道水を飲んでいた頃のことです  
 I used to love going to this store,  but on one occasion I asked myself,  well how come you never buy anything?    	  私はこの店に行くのが大好きでした でもふと思いました なぜ私は何も買わないんだろう？  
 Here's their olive oil aisle.    	  この店のオリーブオイルのコーナーです  
 including those that were in a locked case  that came from thousand-year-old olive trees.    	  鍵の掛かったケースに入った 樹齢千年のオリーブの木から  
 So I one day decided to pay a visit to the manager,  and I asked the manager,  "Is this model of offering people all this choice really working?"    	  採れたオリーブオイルも含め75種類以上ありました そこである日 店長に会って尋ねました こんな沢山の選択肢を提供する方法で売れるんですか？  
 And he pointed to the busloads of tourists  that would show up everyday,  with cameras ready usually.    	  すると店長は カメラを持って毎日やって来る 大勢の観光客を指差しました  
 We decided to do a little experiment,  and we picked jam for our experiment.    	  私たちはちょっとした実験をすることに決めました 実験に選んだのはジャムです  
 Here's their jam aisle.    	  これがジャムのコーナーです  
 They had 348 different kinds of jam.    	  348種類のジャムがありました  
 We set up a little tasting booth  right near the entrance of the store.    	  小さな試食ブースを 店の入り口のすぐ近くに設置しました  
 We there put out six different flavors of jam  or 24 different flavors of jam,  and we looked at two things:  First, in which case  were people more likely to stop, sample some jam?    	  そこで６種類または24種類の 様々な味のジャムを出し ２つのことを観察しました まずどちらの設定の方が 多くの人々が立ち止まってジャムを試食するかです  
 More people stopped when there were 24, about 60 percent,  than when there were six,  about 40 percent.    	  24種類ある場合は約60％の人が試食し ６種類の時の40％より 多いと分かりました  
 The next thing we looked at  is in which case were people more likely  to buy a jar of jam.    	  次に観察したのは どちらの設定の方が ジャムを購入する傾向が高いかです  
 Now we see the opposite effect.    	  すると数値は反対となりました  
 Of the people who stopped when there were 24,  only three percent of them actually bought a jar of jam.    	  24種類の時に試食した人のうち 実際にジャムを購入したのはたったの３％でした  
 Of the people who stopped when there were six,  well now we saw that 30 percent of them  actually bought a jar of jam.    	  ６種類の時に立ち止まった人々の間では なんと30％が実際に ジャムを購入していました  
 Now if you do the math,  people were at least six times more likely to buy a jar of jam  if they encountered six  than if they encountered 24.    	  ここで少し計算してみると 人々は６種類見た時の方が24種類見た時より 少なくとも６倍ジャムを購入する 傾向が高いことになります ジャムを買わない選択は  
 Now choosing not to buy a jar of jam  is probably good for us --  but it turns out that this choice overload problem affects us  even in very consequential decisions.    	  少なくともお腹の脂肪を考えると たぶん良いことでしょうが このような過剰な選択肢の問題は 極めて重要な決断にも影響を及ぼすと判明しました  
 We choose not to choose,  even when it goes against our best self-interests.    	  自分にとって不利であっても 選択することを放棄してしまうのです  
 So now for the topic of today: financial savings.    	  ということで近頃の話題として貯蓄があります  
 Now I'm going to describe to you a study I did with Gur Huberman, Emir Kamenica, Wei Jang  where we looked at the retirement savings decisions  of nearly a million Americans from about 650 plans  all in the U.S.    	  グル・ヒューバーマン エミール・カメニカ ウェイ・ジャングと共に 退職貯蓄に関する決断について行った 調査についてお話します 約650個の退職貯蓄制度における 百万人近くのアメリカ人を対象としました すべてアメリカ国内です  
 And what we looked at  was whether the number of fund offerings  available in a retirement savings plan,  the 401 plan,  does that affect people's likelihood  to save more for tomorrow.    	  私たちが調べたのは 401という 退職貯蓄制度にて 利用できる投資信託の数が 人々の将来の為に貯金する傾向に 影響するかです  
 And what we found  was that indeed there was a correlation.    	  そして実際に 相関関係があることが分かりました  
 So in these plans, we had about 657 plans  that ranged from offering people  anywhere from two to 59 different fund offerings.    	  657個のプランがあったのですが 人々が利用できるファンドの数は ２つのものから59個のものまでありました  
 And what we found was that,  the more funds offered,  indeed, there was less participation rate.    	  そして明らかになったのは ファンドの選択肢が多ければ多いほど 実際に加入率が低下するということでした  
 So if you look at the extremes,  those plans that offered you two funds,  participation rates were around in the mid-70s --  still not as high as we want it to be.    	  ですから両極端を見ると ２つのファンドがあるプランでは 理想よりも下回るとはいえ 加入率は大体75％辺りです  
 In those plans that offered nearly 60 funds,  participation rates have now dropped  to about the 60th percentile.    	  60近くの選択があるプランになると 加入率は 約60％まで低下します  
 Now it turns out  that even if you do choose to participate  when there are more choices present,  even then, it has negative consequences.    	  また 加入することにしても 多くの選択肢があるときは 良くない結果となることが判明しました  
 So for those people who did choose to participate,  the more choices available,  the more likely people were  to completely avoid stocks or equity funds.    	  実際に加入することを決めた人々の間でも 利用できる選択肢が多いほど 完全に株式や 株式ファンドを避ける傾向が高くなります  
 The more choices available,  the more likely they were  to put all their money in pure money market accounts.    	  利用できる選択肢が多いほど マネーマーケットアカウントに 全額入れる可能性が高いのです  
 Now neither of these extreme decisions  are the kinds of decisions  that any of us would recommend for people  when you're considering their future financial well-being.    	  これらの極端な決断は どちらも 将来の金銭的安定を考えると 人に勧めるような決断ではありません  
 Well, over the past decade,  to offering people more and more choices.    	  私たちは過去10年間に渡って 人々により多くの選択肢を提供することで  
 They're more likely to delay choosing --  procrastinate even when it goes against their best self-interest.    	  起こる悪影響を主に３つ見てきました 自分に不利になるにもかかわらず  
 They're more likely to make worse choices --  worse financial choices, medical choices.    	  先延ばしにして選択を遅らせる傾向が高くなること 金銭面や医療面において  
 They're more likely to choose things that make them less satisfied,  even when they do objectively better.    	  良くない選択をする傾向が高くなること 客観的に見て良いのに あまり満足できない選択をする傾向が高くなること  
 The main reason for this  is because, we might enjoy gazing at those giant walls  of mayonnaises, mustards, vinegars, jams,  but we can't actually do the math of comparing and contrasting  and actually picking from that stunning display.    	  これに関する主な理由は マヨネーズ マスタード 酢 ジャムなどの巨大な陳列棚を 眺めるのが楽しくても 実際に比較対照の分析をして その見事なディスプレイから選択をすることができないからです  
 So what I want to propose to you today  are four simple techniques --  techniques that we have tested in one way or another  in different research venues --  that you can easily apply  in your businesses.    	  そこで今日皆さんに提案したいのは ４つの簡単なテクニックです どれも私たちが様々な調査研究において 何らかの形でテストしたものです 皆さんの仕事でも 簡単に応用できます  
 The first: Cut.    	  １つ目：カットすること  
 You've heard it said before,  but it's never been more true than today,  that less is more.    	  耳にしたことがあるでしょうが 「過ぎたるは及ばざるが如し」は かつてないほど真実です  
 People are always upset when I say, "Cut."    	  「カットしてください」と言うといつも憤慨されます  
 They're always worried they're going to lose shelf space.    	  棚割りが減ることばかり  
 But in fact, what we're seeing more and more  is that if you are willing to cut,  get rid of those extraneous redundant options,  well there's an increase in sales,  there's a lowering of costs,  there is an improvement of the choosing experience.    	  心配していますが 実際によく見られる傾向にあるのは 無意味に重複した選択を カットしてなくす覚悟があれば 売上高が増加し コストが低下することです 選択の体験が向上するのです  
 When Proctor & Gamble  went from 26 different kinds of Head & Shoulders to 15,  they saw an increase in sales by 10 percent.    	  P&Gがh&sヘアケア製品を 26種類から15種類に減らしたとき 売上高が10％増加しました  
 got rid of their 10 worst-selling cat litter products,  they saw an increase in profits  by 87 percent --  a function of both increase in sales  and lowering of costs.    	  死に筋の猫トイレ製品10種類を Golden Cat社が取り除いたとき 利益が 87％増加しました 売上高の増加とコストの低下の 両方の効果です  
 You know, the average grocery store today  offers you 45,000 products.    	  今日の典型的食料品店は 45,000種の製品を販売しています  
 The typical Walmart today offers you 100,000 products.    	  Walmartだと販売品目数は100,000です  
 But the ninth largest retailer,  the ninth biggest retailer in the world today  is Aldi,  and it offers you only 1,400 products --  one kind of canned tomato sauce.    	  でも９番目に大きな小売業者 世界で９番目に大きな 小売業者であるAldiですが Aldiの販売品目数はたったの1,400です トマトソースの缶詰は１種です  
 Now in the financial savings world,  I think one of the best examples that has recently come out  on how to best manage the choice offerings  has actually been something that David Laibson was heavily involved in designing,  which was the program that they have at Harvard.    	  さて金融貯蓄の世界はと言うと 最善の選択肢の管理法について最近出た 最も良い例の一つだと思うのは デビッド・レイブソンがデザインに大きく関与した ハーバード大学のプログラムです  
 Every single Harvard employee is now automatically enrolled  in a lifecycle fund.    	  今ではハーバード大学の職員は全員 ライフサイクル・ファンドに  
 For those people who actually want to choose,  they're given 20 funds,  not 300 or more funds.    	  自動加入するしくみになっています 実際にファンドを選択したい人には 膨大な数ではなく  
 You know, often, people say,  "I don't know how to cut.    	  20個の選択肢が提示されます 「どうカットすればいいか分からない  
 They're all important choices."    	  どれも重要な選択肢だ」と  
 And the first thing I do is I ask the employees,  "Tell me how these choices are different from one another.    	  人々はよく言いますが 私が最初にするのは社員に尋ねることです 「これらの選択肢はどう違うの？」  
 And if your employees can't tell them apart,  neither can your consumers."    	  自分の社員が区別できないものを 消費者が区別できるはずがありません  
 Now before we started our session this afternoon,  I had a chat with Gary.    	  さて今日の午後このセッションを始める前に 私はゲイリーと話したのですが  
 to offer people in this audience  an all-expenses-paid free vacation  to the most beautiful road in the world.    	  会場の皆さんに 全経費込みの 世界一美しい道への旅行に 無料でご招待してもいいと言ってくれました  
 Here's a description of the road.    	  これがその道の説明です  
 And I'd like you to read it.    	  皆さん読んでください  
 And now I'll give you a few seconds to read it  if you're ready to take Gary up on his offer.    	  少し待ちますので読んでみて ゲイリーの申し出を受けたい場合  
   Okay. Anybody who's ready to take him up on his offer.    	  拍手をしてください （少々の拍手） では彼の申し出を受けたい人はいますか？  
 Is that all?    	  これだけ？  
 All right, let me show you some more about this.    	  分かりました　もう少し詳細をお見せしましょう  
   You guys knew there was a trick, didn't you.    	   ひっかけだと分かっていたんでしょう？  
   Now who's ready to go on this trip.    	   これを見てこの旅行に行きたい人は？  
     I think I might have actually heard more hands.    	  （拍手）  逆に拍手が増えたのかしら？  
 All right.    	  はい ありがとう  
 Now in fact,  you had objectively more information  the first time around than the second time around,  but I would venture to guess  that you felt that it was more real the second time around.    	  さて実際には 客観的に見て前者の方が後者より 多くの情報を提供していました でもあえて言いますが 後者の方が現実味があるように感じたのではないかと思います  
 Because the pictures made it feel  more real to you.    	  写真がリアル感を 出したからです  
 Which brings me to the second technique  for handling the choice overload problem,  which is concretization.    	  つまりこれが過剰な選択肢の問題に 対応する２つ目の方法で 具体化することです  
 the differences between the choices,  they have to be able to understand  the consequences associated with each choice,  and that the consequences need to be felt  in a vivid sort of way, in a very concrete way.    	  人々が選択肢の違いを 理解するためには それぞれの選択肢に伴う 影響が理解できなくてはなりません さらにこの影響を実感として 具体的に感じる必要があります  
 Why do people spend an average of 15 to 30 percent more  when they use an ATM card or a credit card  as opposed to cash?    	  なぜキャッシュカードやクレジットカードを使うと 人々は平均15～30％多くお金を 使ってしまうのでしょう？  
 Because it doesn't feel like real money.    	  本物のお金に思えないからです  
 And it turns out  that making it feel more concrete  can actually be a very positive tool  to use in getting people to save more.    	  より具体的な体験というのは 実際に人々に貯蓄をさせるうえで 非常に良いツールであることが 判明しました  
 So a study that I did with Shlomo Benartzi  and Alessandro Previtero,  we did a study with people at ING --  employees that are all working at ING --  and now these people were all in a session  where they're doing enrollment for their 401 plan.    	  私がシュロモ・ベナルチと アレッサンドロ・プレヴィテロと 一緒に行った研究では INGで働く社員を対象としました ちょうど社員たちは 401プランの加入登録中でした  
 And during that session,  we kept the session exactly the way it used to be,  but we added one little thing.    	  その加入登録のセッションは それまでと全く同じ形式でしたが １つの小さな変更を加えました  
 The one little thing we added  was we asked people  to just think about all the positive things that would happen in your life  if you saved more.    	  私たちが追加した１つの小さな変更は 自分がもっと貯金したら 生活面でどのような良いことが起きるか 考えて下さいと求めることでした  
 By doing that simple thing,  there was an increase in enrollment by 20 percent  and there was an increase in the amount of people willing to save  or the amount that they were willing to put down into their savings account  by four percent.    	  たったこれだけで 加入が20％増加し 人々が貯金したり 預金口座に入れてもいいと考える金額が ４％増加しました  
 The third technique: Categorization.    	  ３つ目の方法は分類です  
 We can handle more categories  than we can handle choices.    	  選択肢が増えるよりカテゴリが増えた方が 対応しやすくなります  
 So for example,  here's a study we did in a magazine aisle.    	  例えば私たちが行った 雑誌コーナーの調査があります  
 It turns out that in Wegmans grocery stores  up and down the northeast corridor,  the magazine aisles range anywhere  from 331 different kinds of magazines  all the way up to 664.    	  北東回廊付近にある ウェグマンズ食料品店の 雑誌コーナーには 331～664種類の 雑誌があると判明したのですが  
 But you know what?    	  ちょっと聞いてください  
 If I show you 600 magazines  and I divide them up into 10 categories,  versus I show you 400 magazines  and divide them up into 20 categories,  you believe that I have given you  more choice and a better choosing experience  if I gave you the 400  Because the categories tell me how to tell them apart.    	  600種類の雑誌を 10個のカテゴリに分けて見せるのと 400種類の雑誌を 20個のカテゴリに分けて見せるのでは 400種類の方が 600種類の時より 選択肢が多くて買い物しやすいと 人は思うのです カテゴリのおかげで区別しやすいからです  
 Here are two different jewelry displays.    	  これは２種類のジュエリーのディスプレイです  
 One is called "Jazz" and the other one is called "Swing."    	  １つは「ジャズ」もう１つは「スイング」と呼ばれます  
 If you think the display on the left is Swing  and the display on the right is Jazz,  clap your hands.    	  左側のディスプレイがスイングで 右側がジャズだと思う人は 拍手してください  
   Okay, there's some.    	  （少々の拍手） 何人かいますね  
 If you think the one on the left is Jazz and the one on the right is Swing,  clap your hands.    	  では左がジャズで右がスイングだと 思う人は拍手してください  
 Okay, a bit more.    	  こちらの方が少し多いですね  
 Now it turns out you're right.    	  正解は２番目でした  
 The one on the left is Jazz and the one on the right is Swing,  but you know what?    	  左がジャズで右がスイングです でもこれははっきり言って  
 This is a highly useless categorization scheme.    	  極めて無意味な分類法です  
   The categories need to say something  to the chooser, not the choice-maker.    	   カテゴリには選択肢提供者でなく 選択者にとっての意味がなくてはなりません  
 And you often see that problem  when it comes down to those long lists of all these funds.    	  この問題は 金融ファンドの長いリストにも見られます  
 Who are they actually supposed to be informing?    	  誰のための情報なんでしょう？  
 My fourth technique: Condition for complexity.    	  ４つ目の方法は複雑さに慣れさせること  
 It turns out we can actually  handle a lot more information than we think we can,  we've just got to take it a little easier.    	  人は結構自分で思うより 多くの情報を処理できるものです 少しやり易くすればいいだけです  
 We have to gradually increase the complexity.    	  難度を徐々に上げなくてはなりません  
 I'm going to show you one example of what I'm talking about.    	  どういうことか例を出します  
 Let's take a very, very complicated decision:  buying a car.    	  非常に複雑な決断を見てみましょう 車の購入です  
 Here's a German car manufacturer  that gives you the opportunity to completely custom make your car.    	  これはドイツの自動車メーカーです 完全なカスタム仕様車を作ることができます  
 You've got to make 60 different decisions,  completely make up your car.    	  完全に自分の車をデザインするには 60個の決断が必要です  
 Now these decisions vary  in the number of choices that they offer per decision.    	  いろいろな決断があり それに伴う選択肢の数は様々です  
 Car colors, exterior car colors --  I've got 56 choices.    	  車体の色には 56個の選択肢があります  
 Engines, gearshift -- four choices.    	  エンジンとシフトレバーの選択肢は４つです  
 So now what I'm going to do  is I'm going to vary the order in which these decisions appear.    	  さてこれから私がするのは これらの決断の表示順序を変えることです  
 So half of the customers  are going to go from high choice, 56 car colors,  The other half of the customers  are going to go from low choice, four gearshifts,  to 56 car colors, high choice.    	  顧客の半分には 選択肢の多い方から： 56色の車体から４種のレバーの順で検討してもらいます 残りの半分には 選択肢の少ない方から： ４種のレバーから56色の車体の順で検討してもらいます  
 What am I going to look at?    	  私が注目するのは  
 How engaged you are.    	  顧客がどのくらい積極的かです  
 If you keep hitting the default button per decision,  that means you're getting overwhelmed,  that means I'm losing you.    	  標準設定ばかりクリックしている場合は 選択肢に圧倒されている証拠です 顧客の関心が薄れているわけです  
 What you find  is the people who go from high choice to low choice,  they're hitting that default button over and over and over again.    	  結果として分かるのは 多数から少数の選択肢の順序だと 人々は標準設定ばかりクリックします  
 We're losing them.    	  面倒になっているのです  
 They go from low choice to high choice,  they're hanging in there.    	  小数から多数の選択肢の順序だと 頑張って選択します  
 It's the same information. It's the same number of choices.    	  同じ情報で選択肢の数も同じです  
 is I have varied the order  in which that information is presented.    	  変えたのは 情報が表示される 順番だけです  
 If I start you off easy,  I learn how to choose.    	  簡単なことから始めてもらうと 選択の仕方を学びます  
 Even though choosing gearshift  doesn't tell me anything about my preferences for interior decor,  it still prepares me for how to choose.    	  シフトレバーの選択が 自分の内装の好みに関係なくても 選択の仕方に慣れさせ 更に  
 It also gets me excited about this big product that I'm putting together,  so I'm more willing to be motivated  to be engaged.    	  自分が仕様を決める大きな製品だとわくわくさせます つまりやる気が出て 積極的にやろうとするわけです  
 So let me recap.    	  では要点をまとめましょう  
 I have talked about four techniques  for mitigating the problem of choice overload --  cut -- get rid of the extraneous alternatives;  concretize -- make it real;  categorize -- we can handle more categories, less choices;  condition for complexity.    	  過剰な選択肢の問題を軽減する ４つの方法について話しました カット：無意味な選択肢を取り除くこと 具体化：現実感を持たせること 分類：選択肢を減らしてカテゴリを増やす方が人は対応し易いこと そして難易度に慣れさせること  
 All of these techniques that I'm describing to you today  are designed to help you manage your choices --  better for you, you can use them on yourself,  better for the people that you are serving.    	  今日皆さんに説明したこれらの方法は 選択肢をうまく管理できるようにするためのものです 自分自身に応用してもいいですし 皆さんがサービスする顧客にも使えます  
 to getting the most from choice  is to be choosy about choosing.    	  選択肢を最大限に活用するのに 重要なのは 選択の仕方を選択することだと思うからです  
 And the more we're able to be choosy about choosing  the better we will be able  to practice the art of choosing.    	  選択の仕方にこだわれば こだわるほど選択をうまく できるようになると思うからです  
 Thank you very much.    	  どうもありがとうございました  
 In the 1980s  in the communist Eastern Germany,  if you owned a typewriter,  you had to register it with the government.    	  1980年代 共産主義の東ドイツでは タイプライターを所持するには 政府に届け出る必要がありました  
 You had to register  a sample sheet of text  out of the typewriter.    	  タイプライターの 出力サンプルを 登録する必要があったのです  
 And this was done  so the government could track where text was coming from.    	  それは政府が 文書の出所を追跡できるようにするためでした  
 If they found a paper  which had the wrong kind of thought,  they could track down  who created that thought.    	  悪い思想の書かれた 文書が見つかったとき その作者を 突き止められるように  
 And we in the West  couldn't understand how anybody could do this,  how much this would restrict freedom of speech.    	  私たち西側の人間には 考えがたいことでした これが言論の自由をどれほど制限することか 私たちの国で  
 We would never do that in our own countries.    	  このようなことが行われたことはないでしょう  
 But today in 2011,  if you go and buy a color laser printer  from any major laser printer manufacturer  and print a page,  that page will end up  having slight yellow dots  printed on every single page  in a pattern which makes the page unique  to you and to your printer.    	  しかし2011年の今日 どこでも主要なメーカーの カラーレーザープリンタを買って ページを印刷してみると どのページにも 微かな黄色い点が 見つかります そしてそのパターンは 個々のプリンタに固有のものになっているのです  
 This is happening  to us today.    	  これは今日 私たちに起きていることです  
 And nobody seems to be making a fuss about it.    	  しかしそのことで騒ぎ立てる人は誰もいないようです  
 And this is an example  of the ways  that our own governments  are using technology  against us, the citizens.    	  これは 政府が 私たち市民に対し テクノロジーを行使している ひとつの例です  
 And this is one of the main three sources  of online problems today.    	  そしてこれは 今日 ネット上の問題の 主要な３つの源の１つです  
 If we take a look at what's really happening in the online world,  we can group the attacks based on the attackers.    	  ネットの世界で何が起きているかをよく見ると 攻撃は攻撃者によって分類できます  
 We have three main groups.    	  主なグループが３つあります  
 We have online criminals.    	  まずオンライン犯罪者がいます  
 Like here, we have Mr. Dimitry Golubov  from the city of Kiev in Ukraine.    	  このウクライナはキエフ市の ディミトリ・ゴルボフ氏のような  
 And the motives of online criminals  are very easy to understand.    	  オンライン犯罪者の動機は ごく分かりやすいものです  
 These guys make money.    	  彼らは金を稼いでいるのです  
 They use online attacks  to make lots of money,  and lots and lots of it.    	  オンライン攻撃で 金を稼いでいます たくさんの金です  
 We actually have several cases  of millionaires online, multimillionaires,  who made money with their attacks.    	  実際オンライン攻撃で 財を築いた億万長者は 何人もいます  
 Here's Vladimir Tsastsin form Tartu in Estonia.    	  これはエストニアのタルトゥ市出身のウラディミール・チャスツィン  
 This is Alfred Gonzalez.    	  これはアルフレッド・ゴンザレス  
 This is Stephen Watt.    	  スティーブン・ワット  
 This is Bjorn Sundin.    	  ビョルン・サンディーン  
 This is Matthew Anderson, Tariq Al-Daour  and so on and so on.    	  マシュー・アンダーソンに タリク・アルデウア まだまだいます  
 These guys  make their fortunes online,  but they make it through the illegal means  of using things like banking trojans to steal money from our bank accounts  while we do online banking,  or with keyloggers  to collect our credit card information  while we are doing online shopping from an infected computer.    	  彼らは ネットで富を築きましたが 違法な手段を使ってのことです トロイの木馬を使って ネットバンキング利用者から 金を盗んだり キーロガーを使って 感染したコンピュータでオンラインショッピングする人から クレジットカード情報を抜いたりしています  
 The U.S. Secret Service,  two months ago,  froze the Swiss bank account  of Mr. Sam Jain right here,  and that bank account had 14.9 million U.S. dollars on it  when it was frozen.    	  米国のシークレットサービスは ２ヶ月前に サム・ジェイン氏のスイス銀行口座を 凍結しました その口座には米ドルで 1490万ドルありました  
 Mr. Jain himself is on the loose;  nobody knows where he is.    	  ジェイン氏自身は逃亡中です どこにいるのか誰も知りません  
 And I claim it's already today  that it's more likely for any of us  to become the victim of a crime online  than here in the real world.    	  今日の時点ですでに リアルの世界で犯罪に遭うより オンライン犯罪の被害者になる可能性の方が 高いのではと考えています  
 And it's very obvious  that this is only going to get worse.    	  そして当然のこととして 状況は悪くなる一方です  
 In the future, the majority of crime  will be happening online.    	  将来 犯罪の大部分は ネット上で起こっているのではないでしょうか  
 The second major group of attackers  that we are watching today  are not motivated by money.    	  今日私たちが目にするオンライン攻撃者の 主要なグループの２つ目は お金で動機づけられてはいません  
 They're motivated by something else --  motivated by protests,  motivated by an opinion,  motivated by the laughs.    	  彼らは何か別の理由 何かへの抗議や 主義主張のため あるいは悪ふざけで活動しています  
 Groups like Anonymous  have risen up over the last 12 months  and have become a major player  in the field of online attacks.    	  Anonymousというグループは この12ヶ月ほど活気づいていて オンライン攻撃において 大きな存在になってます  
 So those are the three main attackers:  criminals who do it for the money,  doing it for the protest,  but then the last group are nation states,  governments doing the attacks.    	  ですから主要な攻撃者には３種類 金のためにやっている犯罪者や Anonymousのような抗議活動をする ハクティビストがいて そして最後のグループとして 国家があります 政府が攻撃をしているのです  
 And then we look at cases  like what happened in DigiNotar.    	  DigiNotarの事例を 見てみましょう  
 This is a prime example of what happens  when governments attack  against their own citizens.    	  これは政府が その国民に攻撃を仕掛けるとき 何が起きるかの良い例です  
 DigiNotar is a Certificate Authority  from The Netherlands --  or actually, it was.    	  DigiNotarはオランダの 認証局です いや 認証局でした  
 It was running into bankruptcy  last fall  because they were hacked into.    	  ハックされたことが元で この秋に 潰れたのです  
 Somebody broke in  and they hacked it thoroughly.    	  何者かに侵入され 徹底的にハックされました  
 And I asked last week  in a meeting with Dutch government representatives,  I asked one of the leaders of the team  whether he found plausible  that people died  because of the DigiNotar hack.    	  先週 オランダ政府関係者と会談したとき 彼らの代表者に DigiNotarのハッキングが原因で 死人が出たと思われるか 尋ねてみたところ  
 And his answer was yes.    	  答えはイエスでした  
 as the result of a hack like this?    	  このようなハッキングの結果として  
 Well DigiNotar is a C.A.    	  どうして人が死んだりするのでしょう？  
 They sell certificates.    	  DigiNotarは認証局です 彼らは証明書を発行しています  
 What do you do with certificates?    	  証明書は何に使うのでしょう？  
 if you have a website that has https,  SSL encrypted services,  services like Gmail.    	  Webサイトがhttpsを使うためには 証明書が必要です SSL暗号化されたサービスです Gmailなどはその例です  
 Now we all, or a big part of us,  use Gmail or one of their competitors,  but these services are especially popular  in totalitarian states  like Iran,  where dissidents  use foreign services like Gmail  because they know they are more trustworthy than the local services  and they are encrypted over SSL connections,  so the local government can't snoop  on their discussions.    	  私たちの多くが Gmailのようなサービスを使っていますが こういったサービスは イランみたいな全体主義国家で 特に人気があり 反体制活動家は Gmailのような外国のサービスを使っています その方が国内のサービスよりも信頼でき SSL暗号化されているので 政府にスパイされる心配も ありません  
 Except they can if they hack into a foreign C.A.    	  ただし認証局がハックされて  
 and issue rogue certificates.    	  偽の証明書を発行されたら話は別です  
 And this is exactly what happened  with the case of DigiNotar.    	  そしてまさにそれが DigiNotarの事件で起きたことでした  
 What about Arab Spring  and things that have been happening, for example, in Egypt?    	  アラブの春はどうでしょう？ たとえばエジプトで起きていることは？  
 Well in Egypt,  the rioters looted the headquarters  of the Egyptian secret police  in April 2011,  and when they were looting the building they found lots of papers.    	  エジプトでは 2011年4月に 秘密警察の本部を 暴徒が占拠しました そのときに彼らはたくさんの文書を見つけました  
 Among those papers,  was this binder entitled "FINFISHER."    	  その中に“FINFISHER”という バインダがありました  
 And within that binder were notes  from a company based in Germany  which had sold the Egyptian government  a set of tools  for intercepting --  and in very large scale --  all the communication of the citizens of the country.    	  そのバインダには ドイツを本拠とする企業の文書があり その企業はエジプト政府に 傍受のためのツールを 売っていたのです とても大規模な傍受で すべての国民の通信が対象でした  
 They had sold this tool  for 280,000 Euros to the Egyptian government.    	  その企業は傍受ツールを 28万ユーロでエジプト政府に売りました  
 The company headquarters are right here.    	  今出ている写真は その会社の本社です  
 So Western governments  are providing totalitarian governments with tools  to do this against their own citizens.    	  欧米の政府が 全体主義国家が国民に対して使う ツールを提供しているのです  
 But Western governments are doing it to themselves as well.    	  しかし欧米の政府もまた 自国民に同じことをしています  
 For example, in Germany,  just a couple of weeks ago  the so-called State Trojan was found, which was a trojan  used by German government officials  to investigate their own citizens.    	  たとえばドイツで ほんの２週間ほど前に “State Trojan”というトロイの木馬が見つかりました これはドイツ政府が 自国民の調査をするために  
 If you are a suspect in a criminal case,  well it's pretty obvious, your phone will be tapped.    	  使っているものです 犯罪の容疑者であれば 電話は盗聴されることになるでしょう  
 But today, it goes beyond that.    	  しかし今日ではそれ以上です  
 They will tap your Internet connection.    	  インターネット接続に侵入し  
 They will even use tools like State Trojan  to infect your computer with a trojan,  which enables them  to watch all your communication,  to listen to your online discussions,  to collect your passwords.    	  コンピュータをState Trojanのような トロイの木馬に感染させ それを使って すべての通信を監視し ネット上の会話を盗み見 パスワードを抜き取っているのです  
 Now when we think deeper  about things like these,  the obvious response from people should be  that, "Okay, that sounds bad,  but that doesn't really affect me because I'm a legal citizen.    	  このようなことを よく考えた時 人々の典型的な反応はこんな感じでしょう 「まずいことに聞こえるけど 実際は影響ないよ 法を守っているんだから  
 Why should I worry?    	  なぜ心配しなきゃいけないの？  
 Because I have nothing to hide."    	  隠すことなんてないよ」  
 And this is an argument,  which doesn't make sense.    	  そのような議論は 意味がありません  
 Privacy is implied.    	  プライバシーは黙示の権利です  
 Privacy is not up for discussion.    	  プライバシーは議論の対象ではありません  
 This is not a question  between privacy  against security.    	  これは プライバシー 対 治安 という話ではなく  
 It's a question of freedom  against control.    	  自由 対 統制 という問題なのです  
 And while we might trust our governments  right now, right here in 2011,  any right we give away will be given away for good.    	  私たちは2011年現在の政府を 信頼しているかもしれませんが 権利を手放すなら それは永遠に手放すことになるのです  
 any future government,  a government we might have  50 years from now?    	  将来の政府をみんな 盲目的に 信頼するのでしょうか？ 50年後の政府も？  
 And these are the questions  that we have to worry about for the next 50 years.    	  これは私たちが今後50年間 心配しなければならない問なのです  
 This is where I live. I live in Kenya,  at the south parts of the Nairobi National Park.    	  僕は ここで暮らしてます ケニアの― ナイロビ国立公園の南部に住んでいます  
 Those are my dad's cows at the back,  and behind the cows,  that's the Nairobi National Park.    	  後ろにいるのは 僕のお父さんの牛です そして 牛の後ろにあるのが ナイロビ国立公園です  
 Nairobi National Park is not fenced in the south widely,  which means wild animals like zebras  migrate out of the park freely.    	  ナイロビ国立公園の南側― 僕の住む所にはフェンスがありません つまり シマウマのような 野生動物が 公園から 自由に 移動して来るんです  
 So predators like lions follow them,  and this is what they do.    	  すると ライオンのような捕食動物も 同じように移動してきて ライオンが 家畜を  
 They kill our livestock.    	  殺してしまうんです  
 This is one of the cows which was killed at night,  and I just woke up in the morning and I found it dead,  and I felt so bad,  because it was the only bull we had.    	  この牛は うちの牛で 夜 襲われました 僕が 次の朝 普段通りに起きて 見てみると 死んでいたんです すごく悪いことをしたと思いました 家族で所有していた たった１頭の雄牛だったんです  
 My community, the Maasai, we believe that  we came from heaven with all our animals and all the land  for herding them, and that's why we value them so much.    	  僕のコミュニティー マサイ族は― すべての動物や生活するための土地と共に 人間は天国からやって来たと信じています だから家畜を大切にするんです  
 So I grew up hating lions so much.    	  小さい頃から ライオンが大嫌いでした  
 The morans are the warriors  who protect our community and the livestock,  and they're also upset about this problem.    	  モラン達はマサイの戦士で― 僕達のコミュニティーや 家畜を守ってくれます モランは この問題にも とても腹を立てているので  
 So they kill the lions.    	  モランが ライオンを殺しています  
 It's one of the six lions which were killed in Nairobi.    	  これは ナイロビで殺された　 ６頭のライオンの１頭です  
 And I think this is why the Nairobi National Park lions are few.    	  これが ナイロビ国立公園に ライオンがほとんどいない理由だと思います  
 So a boy, from six to nine years old, in my community  is responsible for his dad's cows,  and that's the same thing which happened to me.    	  僕のコミュニティーでは ６歳から９歳の男の子が 家の牛の世話を任されます 同じように 僕にこの役がやってきました  
 So I had to find a way of solving this problem.    	  だから この問題を解決しなければと 思いました  
 And the first idea I got was to use fire,  because I thought lions were scared of fire.    	  １つ目のアイデアは 火を使うことです ライオンは 火を怖がるかと思いました  
 But I came to realize that that didn't really help,  because it was even helping the lions  to see through the cowshed.    	  でも そんなに役に立たないと 気づかされました むしろ　ライオンに 目立つようにしてしまって 牛の場所を見つけるのを 助けてしまったんです  
 So I didn't give up. I continued.    	  でも あきらめませんでした  
 And a second idea I got was  to use a scarecrow.    	  ２つ目に考えた アイデアは かかしを使うことです  
 I was trying to trick the lions  [into thinking] that I was standing near the cowshed.    	  牛の囲いの近くに 僕が立っている― と思わせて ライオンをだまそうとしたんですが・・・  
 But lions are very clever.   They will come the first day and they see the scarecrow, and they go back,  but the second day, they'll come and they say,  this thing is not moving here, it's always here.   So he jumps in and kills the animals.    	  ライオンは とても頭が良いんですよ ライオンも 初めての日は かかしを見て引き返しますよね でも 次の日に来た時には ライオンは「あれは動かないし― いつもいるぞ」って 分かったみたいなんです そうなると 牛の柵を飛び越えて 家畜を殺してしまいます  
 So one night, I was walking around the cowshed with a torch,  and that day, the lions didn't come.    	  ある夜 懐中電灯を持って 牛の柵の近くを歩いていました その日 ライオンは 柵には 近寄りませんでした  
 And I discovered that lions are afraid of a moving light.    	  ライオンは 動く光を怖がることが 分かったんです  
 So I had an idea.    	  それで 思いついたんです  
 Since I was a small boy,  I used to work in my room for the whole day,  and I even took apart my mom's new radio,  and that day she almost killed me,  but I learned a lot about electronics.   So I got an old car battery,  an indicator box. It's a small device found in a motorcycle,  and it helps motorists when they want to turn right or left. It blinks.    	  小さい頃から― 一日中 部屋にこもって 色々作業をしていました お母さんの 新品のラジオを 分解したこともあるんです その日 お母さんに― もう少しで殺されそうになりましたけど でも これで電子機器のことは 良く分かりました アイデア実現のために まずは 古い車のバッテリーと― 方向指示器を手に入れました 指示器はオートバイの一部の小さな装置で オートバイが左右に曲がる時に 点滅して知らせるためのものです  
 And I got a switch where I can switch on the lights, on and off.    	  それから 光を点滅させるための スイッチも用意しました  
 And that's a small torch from a broken flashlight.    	  そして これは壊れた懐中電灯から外した 小さいライトです  
 So I set up everything.    	  これを組み立てました  
 As you can see, the solar panel charges the battery,  and the battery supplies the power  to the small indicator box. I call it a transformer.    	  ご覧のとおり ソーラーパネルが バッテリーを充電します バッテリーが 小さい方向指示器に 電気を供給します 指示器のことはトランスフォーマーと呼んでいます  
 And the indicator box makes the lights flash.    	  この方向指示器が 光を点滅させます  
 As you can see, the bulbs face outside,  because that's where the lions come from.    	  電球は外に向けています ライオンが来る方面です  
 And that's how it looks to lions when they come at night.    	  夜中に来るライオンが見ると こんな風に見えます  
 The lights flash and trick  the lions into thinking I was walking around the cowshed,  but I was sleeping in my bed.    	  電球が点滅することで ライオンは 僕が牛の柵の近くを 歩きまわっていると 勘違いするんです 僕はベッドで寝てましたけど  
     Thanks.    	   （拍手） ありがとう  
 So I set it up in my home two years ago,  and since then, we have never experienced any problem with lions.    	  ２年前に これを僕の家に 取り付けました それ以来 ライオンとは 何の問題も起こっていません  
 And my neighboring homes heard about this idea.    	  すると 僕の隣人たちが このアイデアを聞きつけました  
 One of them was this grandmother.    	  その中の１人が このおばあさんでした  
 She had a lot of her animals being killed by lions,  and she asked me if I could put the lights for her.    	  ライオンに たくさんの家畜を殺されていました このおばあさんから― 僕の装置を付けて欲しい と頼まれました  
 And I said, "Yes."    	  僕は 「もちろん」と答えました  
 So I put the lights. You can see at the back, those are the lion lights.    	  こうして ライトを設置しました 後ろに見えるのが ライオンのライトです  
 Since now, I've set up seven homes around my community,  and they're really working.    	  これまで 僕のコミュニティーの ７つの家に 取り付けました どれも上手くいっています  
 And my idea is also being used now all over Kenya  for scaring other predators like hyenas, leopards,  and it's also being used  to scare elephants away from people's farms.    	  僕のアイデアは 今や ケニア全土で広がっていて ハイエナやヒョウのような 他の捕食動物を追い払うことにも 使われていたり 農地に ゾウを近づけないためにも 使われています  
 Because of this invention, I was lucky to get a scholarship  in one of the best schools in Kenya,  Brookhouse International School,  and I'm really excited about this.    	  この発明のおかげで 僕はケニアでもトップクラスの― 学校に通う奨学金をもらいました ブルックハウス インターナショナル・スクールです 本当に嬉しいです  
 My new school now is coming in and helping  by fundraising and creating an awareness.    	  新しく通い始めた学校は 資金集めやライトを知ってもらうことに 動いてくれたり 取り組みに力を貸してくれています  
 I even took my friends back to my community,  and we're installing the lights to the homes  which don't have [any], and I'm teaching them how to put them.    	  僕のコミュニティーに 学校の友達も連れてきて 彼らの手までも借りて まだライトを付けていない家庭に ライトを取り付けています 同時に 設置方法も みんなに教えています  
 So one year ago, I was just a boy in the savanna grassland  herding my father's cows,  and I used to see planes flying over,  and I told myself that one day, I'll be there inside.    	  １年前 僕はサバンナの草原で お父さんの牛の世話をする― ただの少年でした 飛行機が 飛んで行くのを 見ていました 「自分がいつかその中に乗ってみせる」― そう自分に言い聞かせていました  
 And here I am today.    	  僕は 今日ここに 立っています  
 I got a chance to come by plane for my first time for TED.    	  TEDのため 初めて 飛行機に乗ることができました  
 So my big dream is to become an aircraft engineer and pilot when I grow up.    	  僕の夢は 飛行機のエンジニアと パイロットになることです  
 I used to hate lions, but now because my invention  is saving my father's cows and the lions,  we are able to stay with the lions without any conflict.    	  僕は ずっとライオンが嫌いでした でも この発明のおかげで― お父さんの牛も ライオンたちも守れているから ライオンと対立することなく 暮らせています  
 Ashê olên. It means in my language, thank you very much.    	  Ashê olên 僕の母国語でありがとう という意味です  
   Chris Anderson: You have no idea how exciting it is  to hear a story like yours.    	  （拍手） クリス・アンダーソン: 君がしてくれた様な― 話を聞くといつもワクワクさせられるよ  
 So you got this scholarship.Richard Turere: Yep.    	  奨学金をもらったんですね はい  
 CA: You're working on other electrical inventions.    	  新しい電子機器の発明に 取り組んでいるんですよね  
 What's the next one on your list?    	  次の発明は何ですか？  
 RT: My next invention is,  I want to make an electric fence.CA: Electric fence?    	  僕の次の発明は・・・ 電気フェンスを作りたいんです 電気フェンスですか？  
 RT: But I know electric fences are already invented,  but I want to make mine.    	  電気フェンスが発明済なのは 分かっているんですが・・・ 自分用の電気フェンスを作りたいんです  
   CA: You already tried it once, right, and you --RT: I tried it before,  but I stopped because it gave me a shock.   CA: In the trenches. Richard Turere, you are something else.    	   確か一度作ったんですよね・・・ 以前 一度試したんですが― 感電しそうになったので やめてしまいました リチャード・トゥレレさん あなたはすごい人ですね  
 We're going to cheer you on every step of the way, my friend.    	  これからの１歩１歩も ずっと応援してるからね  
 Thank you so much.RT: Thank you.     	  どうもありがとう ありがとうございます （拍手）  
 When I was little, I thought my country was the best on the planet.    	  まだ小さかったとき 自分の国は地球上で最高だと信じていました  
 And I grew up singing a song called "Nothing To Envy."    	  「われらに羨むものなど何もない」 という歌を歌って育ちました  
 And I was very proud.    	  とても誇らしい気分でした  
 In school, we spent a lot of time studying the history of Kim Il-Sung,  but we never learned much about the outside world,  except that America, South Korea, Japan are the enemies.    	  学校では多くの時間を割いて 金日成の功績を学習しましたが 国外について学ぶ機会は殆どなく 単に 米国 韓国 日本は我々の 敵だと教えられました  
 Although I often wondered about the outside world,  I thought I would spend my entire life in North Korea,  until everything suddenly changed.    	  しばしば外の世界を想像しましたが この国に一生住むと思っていました しかし ある日を境に全てが変わりました  
 When I was seven years old, I saw my first public execution.    	  7歳のとき初めて公開処刑を目撃しました  
 But I thought my life in North Korea was normal.    	  それでも私の生活は普通だと思っていました  
 My family was not poor,  and myself, I had never experienced hunger.    	  当時 私の家族は貧しくなく 私自身は飢餓を経験していません  
 But one day, in 1995, my mom brought home a letter  from a coworker's sister.    	  1995年のある日 母が手紙を持ち帰りました 同僚の妹からの手紙でした  
 It read, "When you read this,  our five family members will not exist in this world,  because we haven't eaten for the past three weeks.    	  書いてあったのは― “この手紙が届くころ我々家族５人は この世には いないことでしょう 最後に食べたのは２週間前でした  
 We are lying on the floor together,  and our bodies are so weak, we are waiting to die."    	  今は皆 床でただじっと横になり 衰弱しきって死を待つだけです”  
 I was so shocked.    	  本当にショックでした  
 This was the first time I heard that people in my country were suffering.    	  初めて知ったのです 飢餓に苦しむ人が私の国にいるなんて  
 Soon after, when I was walking past a train station,  I saw something terrible that to this day I can't erase from my memory.    	  その後すぐ ある駅を通りました 痛ましい姿を見ました 今でも記憶から拭い去れません  
 A lifeless woman was lying on the ground,  while an emaciated child in her arms  just stared helplessly at his mother's face.    	  それは息絶えた一人の女性でした 痩せ細った子供がその腕に抱かれたまま なす術もなく母親の顔を 覗きこんでいました  
 But nobody helped them,  because they were so focused on taking care of themselves and their families.    	  誰も助けようとはしませんでした 自分と家族を守るのに精一杯なのです  
 A huge famine hit North Korea in the mid-1990s.    	  90年代半ば深刻な飢饉が北朝鮮を襲いました  
 Ultimately, more than a million North Koreans died during the famine,  and many only survived by eating grass, bugs and tree bark.    	  最終的には百万人以上が死亡し 生き残った人の多くは飢えをしのぐため 草や 虫 木の皮を口にしました  
 Power outages also became more and more frequent,  so everything around me was completely dark at night,  except for the sea of lights in China,  just across the river from my home.    	  停電も頻繁に起きるようになり 夜は真っ暗闇に包まれました 中国側の煌々とした灯りが見えました 私の家の川向こうは中国でした  
 I always wondered why they had lights, but we didn't.    	  なぜ向こう側は明るいのに こちら側は暗いのか常に不思議でした  
 This is a satellite picture showing North Korea at night,  compared to neighbors.    	  これは 夜の北朝鮮をとらえた衛星写真です 隣国と比較して見ることができます  
 This is the Amnok River,  which serves as a part of the border between North Korea and China.    	  この川は鴨緑江です 北朝鮮と中国の 国境線になっています  
 As you can see, the river can be very narrow at certain points,  allowing North Koreans to secretly cross.    	  ご覧の通り川幅が狭い地点が数か所あり 北朝鮮の人々が密かに越境しようとします  
 But many die.    	  しかし多くは命を落とします  
 Sometimes, I saw dead bodies floating down the river.    	  死体が流れていくのを何度か見ました  
 I can't reveal many details about how I left North Korea,  but I only can say that during the ugly years of the famine,  I was sent to China to live with distant relatives.    	  私が北朝鮮を脱出した経過を 詳しくは話せません とにかく何年も飢饉が続いた時期に 私は中国に住む遠戚の元に送られたのです  
 But I only thought that I would be separated from my family  for a short time.    	  家族と離れて暮らすのは ほんの短い間だけだと思っていました  
 I could have never imagined  that it would take 14 years to live together.    	  まさか家族と再会するのに 14年も要するとは想像しませんでした  
 In China, it was hard living as a young girl without my family.    	  家族から離れた子供が中国で 暮らすのは過酷なことでした  
 I had no idea what life was going to be like  as a North Korean refugee.    	  どんな生活が脱北者を待ち受けているか 全く見当がつきませんでした  
 But I soon learned it's not only extremely difficult,  it's also very dangerous,  since North Korean refugees are considered in China as illegal migrants.    	  しかし すぐ気づきました 生活は極めて過酷で なおかつ非常に危険なものでした なぜならば中国では脱北者は 不法移民として扱われるからです  
 So I was living in constant fear that my identity could be revealed,  and I would be repatriated to a horrible fate,  back in North Korea.    	  常に恐怖と隣り合わせの生活でした 自分の身元が明らかになると 北朝鮮に送還されて恐ろしい運命が 待っているのでした  
 One day, my worst nightmare came true,  when I was caught by the Chinese police,  and brought to the police station for interrogation.    	  そんなある日 最も恐れていたことが 起こりました 私は中国の警察に捕えられ 尋問のため警察署に連行されたのです  
 Someone had accused me of being North Korean,  so they tested my Chinese language abilities,  and asked me tons of questions.    	  私が北朝鮮人だと通報を受けた警察は 私の中国語能力をテストしました 膨大な質問を浴びせられ  
 I was so scared.    	  あまりの恐怖に 心臓が破裂しそうでした  
 I thought my heart was going to explode.    	  もし少しでも疑いがあれば拘束され  
 If anything seemed unnatural, I could be imprisoned and repatriated.    	  強制送還されたことでしょう  
 I thought my life was over.    	  もう おしまいだと思いました  
 But I managed to control all the emotions inside me,  and answer the questions.    	  それでも全ての感情を何とか押さえて 質問に回答しました  
 After they finished questioning me,  one official said to another,  "This was a false report. She's not North Korean."    	  そして全ての質問が終了すると 係官の一人が言ったのです “この通報は誤りだ 彼女は北朝鮮人ではない”  
 And they let me go. It was a miracle.    	  その結果 私は解放されました 奇跡でした  
 Some North Koreans in China seek asylum in foreign embassies.    	  中国内の脱北者が亡命を求めて 外国の大使館に駆け込もうとします  
 But many can be caught by the Chinese police,  and repatriated.    	  多くは中国警察に拘束され 強制送還されます  
 These girls were so lucky.    	  この写真の少女達は大変幸運でした  
 Even though they were caught,  they were eventually released, after heavy international pressure.    	  一旦 拘束されたものの 最終的には解放されました 国際社会の圧力が効いたのです  
 These North Koreans were not so lucky.    	  この人々は運がありませんでした  
 Every year, countless North Koreans are caught in China  and repatriated to North Korea,  where they can be tortured, imprisoned, or publicly executed.    	  毎年 中国では無数の北朝鮮人が拘束され 強制送還されています 送還後には拷問 投獄 さらには 公開処刑もありえます  
 Even though I was really fortunate to get out,  many other North Koreans have not been so lucky.    	  出国できた私は本当に幸運でしたが 運に恵まれない人々も大勢います  
 It's tragic that North Koreans have to hide their identities  and struggle so hard just to survive.    	  悲しいことに北朝鮮人の身元をひた隠しながら 生き延びるだけで精一杯なのです  
 Even after learning a new language and getting a job,  their whole world can be turned upside down in an instant.    	  新しい言葉を覚え 仕事を得たとしても 一瞬にして全てが暗転しかねない人生です  
 That's why, after 10 years of hiding my identity,  I decided to risk going to South Korea.    	  そこで身元を隠す生活を10年続けた果てに リスクを冒して韓国へ行く決心をしました  
 And I started a new life yet again.    	  またしても新しい生活を始めました  
 Settling down in South Korea  was a lot more challenging than I had expected.    	  韓国の生活に慣れることは想像以上に 困難でした  
 English was so important in South Korea,  so I had to start learning my third language.    	  韓国では英語が大変重要なので 3つ目の言語を学ぶことになりました  
 Also, I realized there was a wide gap between North and South.    	  同時に大きなギャップの 存在にも気づきました 北と南のギャップです  
 We are all Korean, but inside,  we have become very different, due to 67 years of division.    	  同じ朝鮮民族なのに内面は 全く変わってしまいました 67年に及ぶ分断のせいです  
 I even went through an identity crisis.    	  私自身のアイデンティティに悩みました  
 Am I South Korean or North Korean?    	  韓国の人間なのか? 北朝鮮の人間なのか?  
 Where am I from? Who am I?    	  どこの出身なのか? 自分は一体誰なのか?  
 Suddenly, there was no country I could proudly call my own.    	  突如として私には 誇るべき母国が消えてしまったのです  
 Even though adjusting to life in South Korea was not easy,  I made a plan -- I started studying for the university entrance exam.    	  韓国での生活に 順応するのは大変でしたが 計画を立てました 大学受験のため勉強を始めたのです  
 Just as I was starting to get used to my new life,  I received a shocking phone call.    	  新生活に慣れ始めたのも つかの間 衝撃的な電話がありました  
 The North Korean authorities intercepted some money  that I sent to my family,  and, as a punishment, my family was going to be forcibly removed  to a desolate location in the countryside.    	  北朝鮮当局が 私が家族宛にした送金を 突き止めたのです 私の家族は戒めに 自宅から人里離れた場所へ 連行されそうになりました もはや脱走しかありません  
 They had to get out quickly.    	  私は脱出プランを練り始めました  
 So I started planning how to help them escape.    	  北朝鮮の人々が 自由に辿り着くには  
 North Koreans have to travel incredible distances  on the path to freedom.    	  果てしなく長い旅を しなければなりません 韓国との国境を超えるのは  
 It's almost impossible to cross the border  So, ironically, I took a flight back to China  and headed toward the North Korean border.    	  殆ど不可能です そこで皮肉にも私は中国へ戻り そこから北朝鮮との 国境へ向かいました  
 Since my family couldn't speak Chinese,  I had to guide them somehow through more than 2,000 miles  in China, and then into Southeast Asia.    	  私の家族は中国語を話せないので 私の助けが必要でした 中国では３千キロ以上の距離を移動し やがて東南アジアに入りました  
 The journey by bus took one week,  and we were almost caught several times.    	  バスの移動は１週間かかり 途中 何度も拘束されかけました  
 One time, our bus was stopped and boarded by a Chinese police officer.    	  一度バスが止められて 中国の警察官が乗車してきました  
 He took everyone's I.D. cards,  and he started asking them questions.    	  全員の身分証明書を取り上げて 尋問を始めました  
 Since my family couldn't understand Chinese,  I thought my family was going to be arrested.    	  私の家族は中国語が話せないので 逮捕されてしまう と思いました  
 As the Chinese officer approached my family,  I impulsively stood up, and I told him  that these are deaf and dumb people that I was chaperoning.    	  私の家族の番になったとき 私は咄嗟に立ち上がって言いました “この人たちは耳が不自由です 自分は付き添い人です”  
 He looked at me suspiciously,  but luckily, he believed me.    	  警察官は疑わしげに私を見ましたが 幸運にも私の話を信じてくれました  
 We made it all the way to the border of Laos.    	  やっとラオス国境まで 辿りついたのですが  
 But I had to spend almost all my money  to bribe the border guards in Laos.    	  ラオスの国境警備兵に賄賂として 所持金のほぼ全てを払いました  
 But even after we got past the border,  my family was arrested and jailed for illegal border crossing.    	  それなのに国境を通過したら 私の家族は逮捕され拘留されました 違法に国境を越えた というのです  
 After I paid the fine and bribe,  my family was released in one month.    	  罰金とさらに賄賂を払って １ヶ月後にようやく解放されました  
 But soon after, my family was arrested and jailed again,  in the capital of Laos.    	  ところが すぐに再拘留されました ラオスの首都でのことです  
 This was one of the lowest points in my life.    	  私の人生で最悪の瞬間でした  
 I did everything to get my family to freedom,  and we came so close,  but my family was thrown in jail,  just a short distance from the South Korean embassy.    	  私は家族の自由のために あらゆることをしたのに あとほんの 少しというところで 拘留されてしまったのです 韓国大使館までは目と鼻の先でした  
 I went back and forth between the immigration office  and the police station,  desperately trying to get my family out.    	  私は移民局と警察署の間を 何度も往復して 家族を釈放するために懸命でした  
 but I didn't have enough money to pay a bribe or fine anymore.    	  しかし罰金や賄賂を払うための お金は底をついていました  
 I lost all hope.    	  全ての望みが絶たれました  
 At that moment, I heard one man's voice ask me,  "What's wrong?"    	  そのとき男性が声を掛けてきました “どうかしましたか?”  
 I was so surprised that a total stranger cared enough to ask.    	  とにかく驚きました 見ず知らずの人が わざわざ声を かけてくれたのです  
 In my broken English, and with a dictionary,  I explained the situation, and without hesitating,  the man went to the ATM,  and he paid the rest of the money for my family,  I thanked him with all my heart, and I asked him,  "Why are you helping me?"    	  私が たどたどしい英語と辞書を片手に 状況を説明すると男性はすかさず ATMに行って 私の家族と他に２人の北朝鮮人分の 保釈金を全て払ってくれたのです 私は心の底からお礼しながら尋ねました “どうして私を助けてくれるのですか?”  
 "I'm not helping you," he said.    	  男性は答えました “あなたを助けるわけじゃない  
 "I'm helping the North Korean people."    	  北朝鮮の人々を助けているのです”  
 I realized that this was a symbolic moment in my life.    	  私の人生で象徴的な瞬間でした  
 The kind stranger symbolized new hope for me and the North Korean people,  when we needed it most.    	  この見知らぬ親切な男性は 新たな希望の象徴です それこそ私たち北朝鮮人が 今最も欲していることです  
 And he showed me that the kindness of strangers  and the support of the international community  are truly the rays of hope we North Korean people need.    	  この男性が示した 差し伸べられる思いやり そして国際社会の支援 これらこそ 北朝鮮の人々が必要とする 希望の光なのです  
 Eventually, after our long journey,  my family and I were reunited in South Korea.    	  長い道のりを経て私たち家族は 韓国で再び集うことが叶いました  
 But getting to freedom is only half the battle.    	  自由を得ても私達の戦いは続きます  
 Many North Koreans are separated from their families,  and when they arrive in a new country,  they start with little or no money.    	  北朝鮮では多くの家族が離れ離れになり たとえ新たな国にたどり着いても 生活を始めるお金は殆ど あるいは全くありません  
 So we can benefit from the international community  for education, English language training, job training, and more.    	  国際社会からの支援はとても有益で 教育や英語の習得 職業訓練などに役立ちます  
 We can also act as a bridge  between the people inside North Korea and the outside world.    	  私たちは北朝鮮内の人々と 外の世界を結ぶ 橋渡し役を担えます 私たちは北朝鮮にいる  
 Because many of us stay in contact with family members still inside,  and we send information and money  that is helping to change North Korea from inside.    	  家族と連絡を取り続けており 情報や資金を提供して 北朝鮮が内側から変革する 活動をしています  
 I've been so lucky, received so much help and inspiration in my life,  so I want to help give aspiring North Koreans  a chance to prosper with international support.    	  私は本当に幸運でした たくさんの支援と 励ましを頂きました 今度は私自身が北朝鮮の同胞を 国際社会の支援を受けながら 励まし続けたいと思います  
 I'm confident that you will see more and more North Koreans  succeeding all over the world,  including the TED stage.    	  さらに多くの北朝鮮の人々が 世界中で活躍することを 私は確信しています きっとこのTEDの舞台でも  
 Thank you.    	  御清聴ありがとうございました  
 I live in South Central.    	  私は サウスセントラルに住んでいます  
 This is South Central:  liquor stores,  fast food,  vacant lots.    	  これがサウスセントラル 酒屋 ファーストフード店 空き地  
 So the city planners, they get together and they figure  they're going to change the name South Central to make it represent something else,  so they change it to South Los Angeles,  like this is going to fix what's really going wrong in the city.    	  都市計画課のお役人達が集まって ”サウスセントラル”という名称を変えて 街を別物にしようと思い立った そうしてついた名前が ”サウス ロサンジェルス” まるで 改名することでこの街の状況が 改善されるかのように  
 This is South Los Angeles.   Liquor stores,  fast food,  vacant lots.    	  そして これが ”サウス ロサンジェルス" 酒屋 ファーストフード店 空き地  
 Just like 26.5 million other Americans,  I live in a food desert, South Central Los Angeles,  home of the drive-thru and the drive-by.    	  他の2,650万人のアメリカ人と同様に 私も ロサンジェルス市サウスセントラルという 「食料砂漠」に住んでいます ”ドライブ スルー” と  
 Funny thing is, the drive-thrus are killing more people than the drive-bys.    	  車から発砲する ”ドライブ バイ シューティング” の本拠地です おかしなことに ドライブスルーによる犠牲者が ドライブ バイのそれを上回っているんです  
 People are dying from curable diseases  in South Central Los Angeles.    	  この街では 人々は治癒可能な病気で 命を落としています  
 For instance, the obesity rate in my neighborhood  is five times higher than, say, Beverly Hills,  which is probably eight, 10 miles away.    	  例えば 私が住む地域の肥満率は 他の地域 例えば そこから 15キロほどしか離れていない ビバリーヒルズと比べて ５倍にもなります  
 I got tired of seeing this happening.    	  こんな状況を目の当たりにするのは もうウンザリしました  
 And I was wondering, how would you feel  if you had no access to healthy food,  if every time you walk out your door you see the ill effects  that the present food system has on your neighborhood?    	  もし 体に良い食料品が まったく 手に入らないとしたら また 外に出るたびに 食のシステムが地域に及ぼす 悪影響を目の当たりにしたらどう思いますか？ 車いすが まるで中古車のように 売り買いされ  
 I see wheelchairs bought and sold like used cars.    	  車いすが まるで中古車のように 売り買いされ  
 I see dialysis centers popping up like Starbucks.    	  透析センターが スターバックスのように 街角に出現する  
 And I figured, this has to stop.    	  「このままじゃ いけない」そう思ったんです  
 So I figured that the problem is the solution.    	  そして 「こうした問題は 同時に解決策でもある」 と  
 Food is the problem and food is the solution.    	  私たちが口にする 食べ物が問題であり またその答えでもあります  
 Plus I got tired of driving 45 minutes round trip  to get an apple that wasn't impregnated with pesticides.    	  それに 農薬が染み込んでない りんごを買うために 車で往復45分も走るなんて もうウンザリだったんです  
 So what I did, I planted a food forest in front of my house.    	  そこでどうしたかと言うと 自宅の前に 「食料の森」を植えたんです  
 It was on a strip of land that we call a parkway.    	  それは歩道の端の ”パークウェイ” と 呼ばれる細長い土地で  
 It's 150 feet by 10 feet.    	  長さ45ｍ 幅３ｍほどです  
 Thing is, it's owned by the city.    	  その土地自体は 市が所有してるんですが  
 But you have to maintain it.    	  管理は こっちがやらなきゃならない そこで思ったんです  
 So I'm like, "Cool. I can do whatever the hell I want,  since it's my responsibility and I gotta maintain it."    	  「よっしゃ どうせ管理はこっちの責任なら やりたいようにやるさ」 「よっしゃ どうせ管理はこっちの責任なら やりたいようにやるさ」  
 And this is how I decided to maintain it.    	  こうして その土地を使うことにしたんです  
 So me and my group, L.A. Green Grounds, we got together  and we started planting my food forest, fruit trees,  you know, the whole nine, vegetables.    	  ”L.A. グリーン グラウンド” という 私のグループのメンバーと一緒に 果物や野菜などなど ありとあらゆるものを植えました  
 What we do, we're a pay-it-forward kind of group,  where it's composed of gardeners from all walks of life,  from all over the city, and it's completely volunteer,  and everything we do is free.    	  私たちは 受けた善意は 次の人へ渡していこう という ”ペイ・フォワード” 的な趣旨のグループで 街中から集まった 様々な職業を持つ ガーデナーです すべてボランティア 無償でやってます  
 And the garden, it was beautiful.    	  そうして出来上がった菜園は とても美しいものでした  
 And then somebody complained.    	  で そうこうするうちに 文句が出始めたんです  
 The city came down on me,  and basically gave me a citation saying that I had to remove my garden,  which this citation was turning into a warrant.    	  市当局から その菜園を撤去しろ と通達がきて そのうち令状がきました  
 And I'm like, "Come on, really?    	  私は「ちょっと待ってよ マジで？  
 A warrant for planting food on a piece of land  that you could care less about?"   And I was like, "Cool. Bring it."    	  こんなちっぽけな放ったらかしになってた土地に 野菜を植えただけで令状か？」 「上等だよ やってみろよ」って 感じでした  
 Because this time it wasn't coming up.    	  まあ その令状は執行されなかったのですが  
 So L.A. Times got ahold of it. Steve Lopez did a story on it  and talked to the councilman,  and one of the Green Grounds members,  they put up a petition on Change.org,  and with 900 signatures, we were a success.    	  そうこうして L.A.タイムズ紙が聞きつけて 記者のスティーブ・ロペスが記事にし 市議にインタビューしたりしました そしてグリーン グラウンドのメンバーが オンライン署名サイトの”Change.org” に 嘆願書を出し そこで900人の署名が集まって 運動は成功しました  
 We had a victory on our hands.    	  勝利を手にしたんです  
 My councilman even called in and said how they endorse  and love what we're doing.    	  市議は 私たちの活動をいかに支持し どれだけ惚れ込んでいるか 電話までしてきました  
 I mean, come on, why wouldn't they?    	  ていうかそりゃ当たり前でしょ？  
 L.A. leads the United States in vacant lots that the city actually owns.    	  ロサンジェルスは全米一 多くの空き地を抱える自治体です  
 They own 26 square miles of vacant lots.    	  その総面積は67平方キロメートルにもなります  
 That's 20 Central Parks.    	  セントラルパーク 20個分ですよ  
 That's enough space to plant 725 million tomato plants.    	  ７億2,500万株のトマトの苗が 十分植えられる スペースです  
 Why in the hell would they not okay this?    	  そう考えたら 一体全体 なんの文句があるって言うんですか？  
 Growing one plant will give you 1,000, 10,000 seeds.    	  一本の苗から1,000 いや 10,000個もの種がとれます  
 When one dollar's worth of green beans  will give you 75 dollars' worth of produce.    	  １ドル分のインゲンから 75ドルに相当する収穫が得られます  
 It's my gospel, when I'm telling people, grow your own food.    	  私はゴスペルのように人々に説いています 自分で食べ物を育てるってことは  
 Growing your own food is like printing your own money.    	  自分で紙幣を刷るのと同じことだ と  
   See, I have a legacy in South Central.    	  （拍手） 私は サウスセントラルに 思い入れがあります  
 I grew up there. I raised my sons there.    	  この街で育ち 息子たちをここで育てました  
 And I refuse to be a part of this manufactured reality  that was manufactured for me by some other people,  and I'm manufacturing my own reality.    	  私は 他人によって作為的につくられた この現実の一部と化したくありません 私は私自身の手で 現実を作り上げていきます  
 See, I'm an artist.    	  私はアーティストです  
 Gardening is my graffiti. I grow my art.    	  ガーデニングは 私の落書きアートです 私はアートを育てているんです  
 Just like a graffiti artist, where they beautify walls,  me, I beautify lawns, parkways.    	  落書きアーティストが 壁面を美しく飾るように 私は 芝生や道路の緑地帯を美しくします  
 I use the garden, the soil, like it's a piece of cloth,  and the plants and the trees,  that's my embellishment for that cloth.    	  庭や土壌を キャンバスのように使い 植物や樹木は そのキャンバスの装飾となります  
 You'd be surprised what the soil could do  if you let it be your canvas.    	  土壌をキャンバスにしたら そこで何ができるか 皆さん きっと驚きますよ  
 You just couldn't imagine how amazing a sunflower is  and how it affects people.    	  ひまわりの花が どれほど美しく どれだけ人々の心に 影響を与えるか 皆さん 想像がつかないでしょう  
 So what happened?    	  そして 何が起きたんでしょうか？  
 I have witnessed my garden become a tool for the education,  a tool for the transformation of my neighborhood.    	  私は そうした菜園が 教育の場や 地域を変化させる ツールとなる様子を 目の当たりにしました  
 To change the community, you have to change the composition of the soil.    	  コミュニティを変えるには 土壌の組成から変えないといけません  
 We are the soil.    	  そして その土壌を組成してるのは 私たち一人一人なんです  
 You'd be surprised how kids are affected by this.    	  子供たちの成長に どんな効果があるか 知ったら驚きますよ  
 Gardening is the most therapeutic  and defiant act you can do,  especially in the inner city.    	  ガーデニングは もっとも癒し効果があり かつ 挑戦的な活動なんです 特に都心の貧しい地域ではね  
 Plus you get strawberries.    	  おまけにイチゴも手に入ります  
   I remember this time,  there was this mother and a daughter came,  it was, like, 10:30 at night, and they were in my yard,  and I came out and they looked so ashamed.    	   いまだに記憶に残ってる 出来事があるんですが ある日 夜の10時半ごろ 母娘が 私の菜園にやって来て ちょうど私と出くわしたんです 彼らは とても気まずそうにしていました  
 So I'm like, man, it made me feel bad that they were there,  and I told them, you know, you don't have to do this like this.    	  「おいおい」 私は気の毒になって声をかけました 「そんな風に コソコソしないでいいんだよ  
 It made me feel ashamed to see people  that were this close to me that were hungry,  and this only reinforced why I do this,  and people asked me, "Fin, aren't you afraid  people are going to steal your food?"    	  そのために路上に作ったんだからさ」 自分のこんな近くに お腹を空かせた人たちがいる そう思うと とても面目ない気持ちになりました そして ますますやる気になったんです 「フィン せっかく作った物を 誰かに盗まれないか　心配じゃないのか？」  
 And I'm like, "Hell no, I ain't afraid they're gonna steal it.    	  と聞かれますが こう答えます 「とんでもない 心配なんてしてないよ  
 That's why it's on the street.    	  そのために路上にあるんだ  
 That's the whole idea.    	  それが本来の目的なんだ  
 I want them to take it, but at the same time,  I want them to take back their health."    	  持って行ってもらって構わない でも代わりに みんなに 健康を取り戻してもらいたいんだ」  
 There's another time when I put  a garden in this homeless shelter in downtown Los Angeles.    	  こんなこともありました ロサンジェルスの中心部にある ホームレスのシェルターに 菜園を造ったんです  
 These are the guys, they helped me unload the truck.    	  そこにいた連中 みんなで荷下ろしを手伝ってくれました  
 It was cool, and they just shared the stories  about how this affected them and how  they used to plant with their mother and their grandmother,  and it was just cool to see how this changed them,  if it was only for that one moment.    	  最高でしたよ みんな 色んな話をしてくれました こうした作業が どう心に響くか 昔 どんな風に母親や祖母の 庭仕事を手伝ったのか 菜園造りを通じて 彼らが変化するのを見たのは 素晴らしいことでした たとえあの 一時だけだったとしてもね  
 So Green Grounds has gone on to plant  maybe 20 gardens.    	  こうしてグリーン グラウンドは作物を植え続け 20か所ほどの菜園を造りました  
 We've had, like, 50 people come to our dig-ins  and participate, and it's all volunteers.    	  作業現場には 50人くらいが集まりました みんなボランティアです  
 If kids grow kale, kids eat kale.    	  ケールを育てた子供は ケールを食べるようになり  
   If they grow tomatoes, they eat tomatoes.   But when none of this is presented to them,  if they're not shown how food affects the mind and the body,  they blindly eat whatever the hell you put in front of them.    	   トマトを育てた子供は トマトを食べる （拍手） でも もし こうした食べ物が 子供たちに提供されず 誰も 食が心身に及ぼす影響について 子供たちに教えなければ 彼らは 何の疑いもなく 目の前にある物を 口にするでしょう  
 I see young people  and they want to work,  but they're in this thing where they're caught up --  I see kids of color and they're just on this track  that's designed for them,  that leads them to nowhere.    	  若い連中は 仕事をしたがってます でも 現状から抜け出せずにいる 有色人種の子供たちは あらかじめ引かれた レールの上を行くしかない そしてその先には 何も無いんです  
 So with gardening, I see an opportunity where we can train these kids  to take over their communities,  to have a sustainable life.    	  だからガーデニングは そういう子供たちが コミュニティを受け継ぎ 健全な生活を 維持継続していくための  
 And when we do this, who knows?    	  格好のトレーニングの場になると思います その結果 もしかしたら  
 We might produce the next George Washington Carver.    	  ジョージ・ワシントン・カーバーのような 植物学者が 誕生するかもしれない  
 but if we don't change the composition of the soil,  we will never do this.    	  でも もし我々で 土壌を変えていかなかったら それも決して実現しません  
 Now this is one of my plans. This is what I want to do.    	  さて 一つ計画があって こんなことを やってみたいんです  
 I want to plant a whole block of gardens  where people can share in the food in the same block.    	  街の一区画 すべてを使って 野菜や果物を植え 近隣の住民みんなでシェアする  
 I want to take shipping containers  and turn them into healthy cafes.    	  貨物用のコンテナを改造して ヘルシーなカフェにする  
 Now don't get me wrong.    	  でも 勘違いしないでください  
 I'm not talking about no free shit,  because free is not sustainable.    	  ”ご自由にどうぞ” 的なヤツじゃありません タダでやることは 継続的じゃないからです  
 The funny thing about sustainability,  you have to sustain it.    	  継続性の面白いところは 継続しなきゃダメってこと  
    What I'm talking about is putting people to work,  and getting kids off the street, and letting them know  the joy, the pride and the honor in growing your own food,  opening farmer's markets.    	  （拍手） ここで言ってるのは 人々に職を提供したり また 街でぶらぶらする子供たちをなくして 彼らに 自分たちで作物を育てる喜びや 誇りを感じてもらうこと 青空市場を開く そんなことです  
 So what I want to do here,  we gotta make this sexy.    	  ここで肝心なのは いかに恰好良くやるかってことです  
 So I want us all to become ecolutionary renegades,  gangstas, gangsta gardeners.    	  だから 皆さんと一緒にエコ革命の革命家 ギャング・ガーデナー になりたいんです だから 皆さんと一緒にエコ革命の革命家 ギャング・ガーデナー になりたいんです  
 We gotta flip the script on what a gangsta is.    	  ギャングの定義を 覆さないといけません  
 If you ain't a gardener, you ain't gangsta.    	  ガーデナーでないヤツは ギャングにはなれませんよ  
 Get gangsta with your shovel, okay?    	  シャベルを持って ギャングになりましょうよ ね？  
 And let that be your weapon of choice.    	  そして シャベルを武器に 自らの選択肢を勝ち取りましょう  
   So basically, if you want to meet with me,  you know, if you want to meet,  don't call me if you want to sit around in cushy chairs  and have meetings where you talk about doing some shit --  where you talk about doing some shit.    	  （拍手） という訳で もし私に会いたかったら もし私に会いたいと思ったら ふかふかの椅子に座って つまんない事を あれこれやろうなんて 話をするつもりなら連絡しても無駄です  
 If you want to meet with me, come to the garden  with your shovel so we can plant some shit.    	  もし私に会いたかったら シャベルを持って 菜園に来てください そして一緒に 何かつまんない物でも植えましょう  
 Peace. Thank you.    	  じゃ どうも  
   Thank you.     	  （拍手） ありがとう（拍手）  
        You probably all agree with me  that this is a very nice road.    	      この写真の道路は きれいに舗装された 道路ですね  
 It's made of asphalt,  and asphalt is a very nice material to drive on,  but not always, especially not on these days as today,  when it's raining a lot.    	  これはアスファルト製のものです アスファルトという素材は 運転には快適ですが でも常に良いとは限りません 例えば今日の様な どしゃぶりの日など  
 Then you can have a lot of splash water in the asphalt.    	  路面に水が溜まり 水がはね放題です  
 And especially if you then ride with your bicycle,  and pass these cars, then that's not very nice.    	  こういう時に自転車に乗っていて 横を車が通ったりすると もう最悪ですね  
 Also, asphalt can create a lot of noise.    	  アスファルトのもう一つの欠点は 騒音です  
 It's a noisy material,  and if we produce roads like in the Netherlands,  very close to cities, then we would like a silent road.    	  うるさい素材なんです オランダの都市部の近くでは 静かな道路が望まれます  
 The solution for that is to make roads  out of porous asphalt.    	  これらの問題を解決するのが ポーラスアスファルト 多孔質のアスファルト舗装です  
 in most of the highways in the Netherlands,  it has pores and water can just rain through it,  so all the rainwater will flow away to the sides,  and you have a road that's easy to drive on,  so no splash water anymore.    	  現在 オランダの幹線の ほとんどで ポーラスアスファルトという 素材が使われています この素材には空隙がたくさんあり 雨水は全て路肩に流れるので 運転も楽になりますし  
 Also the noise will disappear in these pores.    	  水はねの心配もなくなります  
 Because it's very hollow, all the noise will disappear,  so it's a very silent road.    	  更に この溝のおかげで ノイズもなくなります たくさんの空隙が 走行音を吸収してくれます  
 It also has disadvantages, of course,  and the disadvantage of this road is that raveling can occur.    	  つまり とても静かな道路になるんです しかし もちろん 良いことばかりではありません 問題点は表層の剥離です  
 What is raveling? You see that in this road  that the stones at the surface come off.    	  剥離とは こちらの画像のように 表面の砂利が剥がれてしまうことです  
 First you get one stone, then several more,  and more and more and more and more,  and then they -- well, I will not do that.   But they can damage your windshield,  so you're not happy with that.    	  砂利や砕石が 最初は１つ そこから 徐々に少しづつ 次第にどんどん剥がれていき 最終的には… 皆さんにはぶつけませんよ　 でも フロントガラスには傷がつきます これは好ましくありませんね  
 And finally, this raveling can also lead to more and more damage.    	  剥離が さらに進んでしまうと  
 Sometimes you can create potholes with that.    	  ここから窪みができることもあります  
 Ha. He's ready.    	  彼は釣りを楽しんでいますね  
 Potholes, of course, that can become a problem,  but we have a solution.    	  窪みも もちろん問題になりますが 解決策をご紹介します  
 Here you see actually how the damage appears in this material.    	  こちらはダメージを図式化したものです  
 It's a porous asphalt, like I said, so you have only  a small amount of binder between the stones.    	  このアスファルトは多孔質であるため 砂利間の結合材の量は少ないんです  
 Due to weathering, due to U.V. light, due to oxidation,  this binder, this bitumen,  the glue between the aggregates is going to shrink,  and if it shrinks, it gets micro-cracks,  and it delaminates from the aggregates.    	  風化､紫外線､酸化が原因となって 結合材となっている アスファルト自体が収縮すると 小さな亀裂が生じ 砂利から浮いてしまいます  
 Then if you drive over the road, you take out the aggregates --  what we just saw here.    	  この上を車が走れば 砂利がとれてしまいますから 先程見たような光景になってしまうんです  
 To solve this problem, we thought of self-healing materials.    	  この問題の解決に向けて 自己修復性アスファルトを思いつきました  
 If we can make this material self-healing,  then probably we have a solution.    	  アスファルトに 自己修復能力を付与できれば 問題解決となるかもしれません  
 So what we can do is use steel wool just to clean pans,  and the steel wool we can cut in very small pieces,  and these very small pieces we can mix to the bitumen.    	  さて 具体的にはフライパンをこする スチールウールを使います まずは これを細かく切り刻みます そしてアスファルトに混ぜ込むと  
 So then you have asphalt  with very small pieces of steel wool in it.    	  スチールウールの破片入りの アスファルトが出来上がります  
 Then you need a machine, like you see here,  that you can use for cooking -- an induction machine.    	  次に必要なのがこのような機械です 調理にも使われる 誘導加熱機です  
 Induction can heat, especially steel; it's very good at that.    	  誘導による発熱は 特にスチールで効果的です  
 Then what you do is you heat up the steel,  you melt the bitumen,  and the bitumen will flow into these micro-cracks,  and the stones are again fixed to the surface.    	  さて スチールが加熱されると アスファルトが溶けます 溶けたものが ひび割れに 流れ込み 砂利がまた表面に固定される仕組みです  
 Today I use a microwave because I cannot take the big induction machine here onstage.    	  本日はこのステージ上で 大型の誘導加熱機は使えませんので  
 So a microwave is a similar system.    	  電子レンジで代用しています 電子レンジでも 似たようなことができます  
 So I put the specimen in, which I'm now going to take out  to see what happened.    	  中に入れておいた サンプルを取り出しますよ どうなっているでしょうか  
 So this is the specimen coming out now.    	  こちらが過熱しておいたサンプルです  
 So I said we have such an industrial machine in the lab  to heat up the specimens.    	  ラボにはサンプル加熱用の 大型のものがあると お話しましたが これを使って  
 We tested a lot of specimens there,  and then the government, they actually saw our results,  and they thought, "Well, that's very interesting. We have to try that."    	  いろいろなサンプルをテストしました 政府はこの結果に興味を示し 実際に試せるかということになり  
 So they donated to us a piece of highway,  400 meters of the A58, where we had to make  So that's what we did here. You see where we were making the test road,  and then of course this road will last several years  without any damage. That's what we know from practice.    	  試験用の道路を作って この素材をテストが出来るよう 国道A58の一部 400 m を割り当ててくれました これが試験用の道路を 作っている所です もちろん この道路は破損なしに 数年はもつはずです これが実環境でのテスト結果です  
 So we took a lot of samples from this road  and we tested them in the lab.    	  この道路から たくさんのサンプルを採取して ラボでテストを行いました  
 So we did aging on the samples,  did a lot of loading on it, healed them with our induction machine,  and healed them and tested them again.    	  サンプルで耐久テストを行い 負荷をかけては 誘導加熱機で修復しました 修復後 またテストをし  
 Several times we can repeat that.    	  これを何回も繰り返します  
 So actually, the conclusion from this research is that  if we go on the road every four years  with our healing machine -- this is the big version  we have made to go on the real road --  if we go on the road every four years  we can double the surface life of this road,  which of course saves a lot of money.    	  この研究から分かったことは ４年に一度 道路に出向いて 私たちが製作した大型の 誘導加熱機と共に ４年ごとに 道路に出向き 修復することで この道路の寿命を２倍に延ばせるんです これは大きなコスト削減になります  
 Well, to conclude, I can say  that we made a material  using steel fibers, the addition of steel fibers,  using induction energy to really  increase the surface life of the road,  double the surface life you can even do,  so it will really save a lot of money with very simple tricks.    	  結論ですが 私たちはスチールウールと 誘導エネルギーを利用して機能する 新素材を作り上げました これで道路の寿命を延ばせるんです ２倍にまで伸ばすことが可能です つまり ちょっとした工夫で 大幅なコスト削減が見込めます  
 And now you're of course curious if it also worked.    	  さて こちらの方も上手く行ったか 気になりますね  
 So we still have the specimen here. It's quite warm.    	  こちらがサンプルですが まだ かなり暖かいです  
 Actually, it still has to cool down first  before I can show you that the healing works.    	  上手く融着したか お見せする前に 本当は冷まさないとだめですが  
 But I will do a trial.    	  試しに見てみましょうか  
 Let's see. Yeah, it worked.    	  どうでしょうか くっついていますね  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 When I was 11,  I remember waking up one morning to the sound of joy in my house.    	  私が11才の時のことです ある朝 家中に湧き上がった 歓声に目を覚ましました  
 My father was listening to BBC News  on his small, gray radio.    	  父はグレーの小型ラジオで BBCニュースを聞いていました  
 There was a big smile on his face which was unusual then,  because the news mostly depressed him.    	  そして 珍しく 満面の笑みを浮かべていました 普段は暗いニュースに 落ち込んでばかりいましたから  
 "The Taliban are gone!" my father shouted.    	  「タリバンが撤退したぞ！」 父は叫びました  
 I didn't know what it meant,  but I could see that my father was very, very happy.    	  それが何を意味するのか 理解できなくても 父が大喜びしているのはわかりました  
 "You can go to a real school now," he said.    	  「これでおまえも ちゃんとした学校に行けるぞ」 父は言いました  
 A morning that I will never forget.    	  その日の朝のことは 決して忘れることはないでしょう  
 A real school.    	  ちゃんとした 普通の学校  
 You see, I was six when the Taliban took over Afghanistan  and made it illegal for girls to go to school.    	  タリバンがアフガニスタンを制圧して 女子の就学を禁止した時 私は６才でした  
 So for the next five years, I dressed as a boy  to escort my older sister, who was no longer allowed  to be outside alone, to a secret school.    	  その後５年間 私は男の子の格好をして 当時すでに 一人での外出を禁じられていた 姉に付き添って秘密の学校に通っていました  
 It was the only way we both could be educated.    	  それが 私たちが教育を受ける唯一の方法だったのです  
 Each day, we took a different route  so that no one would suspect where we were going.    	  私たちは毎日 通学路を変えました そうすれば 誰も行く先を怪しまないと思ったのです  
 We would cover our books in grocery bags  so it would seem we were just out shopping.    	  教科書は買い物袋に入れて 持ち歩きました そうすれば ただ買い物に行くように見えるからです  
 The school was in a house,  more than 100 of us packed in one small living room.    	  一軒の民家が学校になっていました 小さな居間に 100人以上の子供たちが ぎゅうぎゅう詰めになりました  
 It was cozy in winter but extremely hot in summer.    	  冬はぬくぬくしましたが 夏はとても暑くなりました  
 We all knew we were risking our lives --  the teacher, the students and our parents.    	  教師や生徒 そして親たちも皆 自分の命を危険にさらしていると 分かっていました  
 From time to time, the school would suddenly be canceled  for a week because Taliban were suspicious.    	  時折 突然一週間も 休校になることがありました タリバンに怪しまれたからです  
 We always wondered what they knew about us.    	  私たちはいつも不安でした タリバンは何を知っているのか  
 Were we being followed?    	  私たちは つけ狙われているんじゃないか？  
 Do they know where we live?    	  住んでる場所も 分かってるんじゃないか？  
 We were scared,  but still, school was where we wanted to be.    	  皆 怯えていました でも それでもなお 学校に行くことを望んだのです  
 I was very lucky to grow up in a family  where education was prized and daughters were treasured.    	  私は幸運にも 教育を重要視し 娘たちを愛しむ そんな家庭に育ちました  
 My grandfather was an extraordinary man for his time.    	  祖父は 当時のアフガニスタンにあって 並外れた人物でした  
 A total maverick from a remote province of Afghanistan,  he insisted that his daughter, my mom,  go to school, and for that he was disowned by his father.    	  地方の片田舎出身の型破りな人で 自分の娘 私の母ですが 学校に行かせると言い張って そのために父親から勘当されたのです  
 But my educated mother became a teacher.    	  そうして教育を受けた私の母は 教師になりました  
 There she is.    	  こちらが母です  
 She retired two years ago, only to turn our house  into a school for girls and women in our neighborhood.    	  ２年前に退職しましたが その後自宅を開放して 近隣の女性や 女子児童が通う 学校を創りました  
 And my father -- that's him --  he was the first ever in his family to receive an education.    	  そして私の父 こちらですが 彼は当時 家族の中で 初めて教育を受けた人です  
 There was no question that his children  would receive an education, including his daughters,  despite the Taliban, despite the risks.    	  彼にとって 娘も含め自分の子どもたちが 教育を受けるのは 当然のことでした タリバンが 何と言おうと どんなリスクがあろうと  
 To him, there was greater risk in not educating his children.    	  むしろ それをしないリスクのほうが 大きかったのです  
 During Taliban years, I remember  there were times I would get so frustrated by our life  and always being scared and not seeing a future.    	  タリバンに制圧されていた当時 常に恐怖に怯えて 将来など見えない そんな日々の生活に 嫌気がさすことがありました  
 I would want to quit,  but my father,  he would say,  "Listen, my daughter,  you can lose everything you own in your life.    	  学校なんて やめたい そう思ったこともあります でもそんな時 父は 決まってこう言うのです 「いいかい よく聞きなさい 人間は 大切なものすべてを失うことがある  
 Your money can be stolen. You can be forced to leave your home during a war.    	  お金を盗まれたり 戦争によって 故郷を 離れなければならないこともある  
 But the one thing that will always remain with you  is what is here,  and if we have to sell our blood to pay your school fees,  we will.    	  でも唯一 何があっても失うことがないもの それはお前の “ここ” にあるんだよ だから もしお前の授業料を払うためなら お父さんたちは 自分の血を売ったっていい  
 So do you still not want to continue?"    	  どうだい　それでもまだ やめたいかい？」  
 Today I am 22.    	  今 私は２２才です  
 I was raised in a country that has been destroyed  by decades of war. Fewer than six percent of women my age have made it beyond high school,  and had my family not been so committed to my education,  I would be one of them.    	  私は数十年に渡る戦争で 破壊された国で育ちました 私と同世代で 高等学校より先に進学した女性は ６%にも満たない状況です もし私の両親に あそこまでの固い意志がなければ 私もそうした一人になっていたでしょう  
 Instead, I stand here a proud graduate of Middlebury College.    	  でも今日私はこうして ミドルバリー大学の卒業生として 胸を張って 皆さんの前に立っています  
   When I returned to Afghanistan, my grandfather,  the one exiled from his home for daring to educate his daughters,  was among the first to congratulate me.    	  （拍手） アフガニスタンに帰国した時 祖父も 真っ先に 祝福してくれました 自分の娘たちに 果敢に教育を受けさせ そのため家族から勘当された その人です  
 He not only brags about my college degree,  but also that I was the first woman,  and that I am the first woman  to drive him through the streets of Kabul.    	  祖父は 私が大学を出たことだけでなく 女性として初めて卒業したこと また 女性として初めて 自分を車に乗せてカブール市内を走る 私のことを自慢しています  
   My family believes in me.    	  （拍手） 私の家族は 私を信じています  
 I dream big, but my family dreams even bigger for me.    	  私は 大きな夢を持っていますが 家族はそれ以上に 私に大きな期待をしています  
 That's why I am a global ambassador for 10x10,  a global campaign to educate women.    	  そうしたことから 私は女性の教育を推進する 世界的な運動 "10 x 10" の グローバルアンバサダーを務めています  
 That's why I cofounded SOLA,  the first and perhaps only boarding school for girls in Afghanistan,  a country where it's still risky for girls to go to school.    	  さらに”SOLA”の共同創設者になりました ”SOLA"は まだ女子の就学にリスクが伴う アフガニスタンにおいて ”SOLA"は まだ女子の就学にリスクが伴う アフガニスタンにおいて  
 The exciting thing is that I see students at my school  with ambition grabbing at opportunity.    	  最初の また恐らく唯一の女子のための寄宿学校です とても嬉しいことに ”SOLA"の学生たちは 皆チャンスを掴もうと 意欲満々です  
 And I see their parents and their fathers who, like my own, advocate for them,  despite and even in the face of daunting opposition.    	  そして 彼女たちの両親 父親も 私の父がそうであったように 威圧的な 周囲の反対にもかかわらず 自分の娘たちを擁護しています  
 Like Ahmed. That's not his real name,  and I cannot show you his face,  but Ahmed is the father of one of my students.    	  アハマッドもその一人です 本名は明かせませんし 彼の姿を お見せすることもできませんが アハマッドは ある”SOLA"の生徒の父親です  
 Less than a month ago, he and his daughter  were on their way from SOLA to their village,  and they literally missed being killed  by a roadside bomb by minutes.    	  一か月ほど前 アハマッドと彼の娘は ”SOLA"から 自宅のある村に帰る途中 路上に仕掛けられた爆弾で 文字通り 間一髪で命を落とすところでした  
 As he arrived home, the phone rang,  a voice warning him  that if he sent his daughter back to school,  they would try again.    	  そして家に帰り着くと すぐに電話が鳴り 見知らぬ声の主に もし彼が再び娘を登校させれば また命を狙うと 脅されたのです  
 "Kill me now, if you wish," he said,  "but I will not ruin my daughter's future  because of your old and backward ideas."    	  「殺したければ 今すぐ殺せばいい」 彼は言いました 「それでも私は お前たちの 古びた後進的な思想のために 娘の将来を台無しにはしない」  
 What I've come to realize about Afghanistan,  and this is something that is often dismissed in the West,  that behind most of us who succeed  is a father who recognizes the value in his daughter  and who sees that her success is his success.    	  アフガニスタンについて 分かってきたことがあります 西欧諸国では 見過ごされがちですが 多くの場合 私たちのように 成功した人々の影には 自分の娘の可能性を認め 彼女の成功を 自らの成功と考える 父親の存在があります  
 It's not to say that our mothers aren't key in our success.    	  母親の役割を 軽視するわけではありません  
 In fact, they're often the initial and convincing negotiators  of a bright future for their daughters,  but in the context of a society like in Afghanistan,  we must have the support of men.    	  実際 娘の明るい未来を実現する上で 母親がまず最初に 説得力のある交渉役を担うことが よくあります でも アフガニスタンのような 社会の状況下では 男性のサポートが不可欠なのです  
 Under the Taliban, girls who went to school  numbered in the hundreds --  remember, it was illegal.    	  タリバン圧政下で就学した女子の数は 数百人にとどまりました 先ほどお話した通り 法律で禁止されてましたから  
 But today, more than three million girls are in school in Afghanistan.    	  でも今日 アフガニスタンで学校に通う女子は 300万人以上にのぼります  
   Afghanistan looks so different from here in America.    	  （拍手） アフガニスタンは ここアメリカとは 大きく様相が異なります  
 I find that Americans see the fragility in changes.    	  アメリカ人は こうした変革を もろいものだと考えているようです  
 I fear that these changes will not last  much beyond the U.S. troops' withdrawal.    	  私は アメリカ軍撤退後は こうした変革は 長続きしないのではないかと 危惧しています  
 But when I am back in Afghanistan,  when I see the students in my school  and their parents who advocate for them,  who encourage them, I see a promising future  and lasting change.    	  でも実際アフガニスタンに帰って ”SOLA"の生徒たちや 彼女たちのために声を上げ 応援している親たちを見ると 未来は明るく また変革も 末永く続くと 思えるのです  
 To me, Afghanistan is a country of hope and boundless possibilities,  and every single day  the girls of SOLA remind me of that.    	  私にとって アフガニスタンは 希望と無限の可能性を秘めた国です そして毎日 来る日も来る日も ”SOLA"の生徒たちが 私にそれを思い出させてくれるのです  
 Like me, they are dreaming big.    	  私と同じように 彼女たちも大きな夢を抱いています  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとう  
 I have never, ever forgotten the words of my grandmother  who died in her exile:  "Son, resist Gaddafi. Fight him.    	  私は一度たりとも忘れたことはありません 亡命中に亡くなった祖母の言葉を 「息子よ カダフィに抵抗し 戦いなさい  
 But don't you ever turn  into a Gaddafi-like revolutionary."    	  でもそれは決して カダフィの様な革命であってはなりません」  
 Almost two years have passed  since the Libyan Revolution broke out,  inspired by the waves of mass mobilization  in both the Tunisian and the Egyptian revolutions.    	  リビア革命が勃発してから およそ２年が経ちました リビア革命が勃発してから およそ２年が経ちました 大規模な騒乱の波 チュニジアとエジプトでの革命の流れを受け 大規模な騒乱の波 チュニジアとエジプトでの革命の流れを受け  
 I joined forces with many other Libyans inside and outside Libya  to call for a day of rage  and to initiate a revolution against the tyrannical regime of Gaddafi.    	  私は国内外のリビア人勢力に加わりました 怒りの声を上げ カダフィによる独裁政権に対する 革命を起こすためです  
 And there it was, a great revolution.    	  こうして大革命が始まったのです  
 Young Libyan women and men were at the forefront  calling for the fall of the regime,  raising slogans of freedom, dignity, social justice.    	  若いリビア人が男女問わず 最前線に立ちました 独裁政権の打倒を叫びました 自由 尊厳 社会的公正のスローガンを掲げて  
 They have shown an exemplary bravery  in confronting the brutal dictatorship of Gaddafi.    	  彼らは民衆に勇気を見せつけたのです カダフィの残忍な独裁政権を糾弾することによって  
 They have shown a great sense of solidarity  from the far east to the far west to the south.    	  彼らは結束の強さを教えてくれました 国の東西の端々 そして南部に至るまで  
 Eventually, after a period of six months of brutal war  and a toll rate of almost 50,000 dead,  we managed to liberate our country and to topple the tyrant.    	  ６ヶ月にわたる凄惨な戦争の結果 およそ５万人が亡くなり 暴君を倒し 国を解放することに成功しました  
   However, Gaddafi left behind a heavy burden,  a legacy of tyranny, corruption and seeds of diversions.    	  （拍手） カダフィ政権の後には大変な厄介事が残されました 圧政 汚職 横領などの根源は今だ残ったままです  
 For four decades Gaddafi's tyrannical regime  destroyed the infrastructure as well as the culture and the moral fabric of Libyan society.    	  40年にわたるカダフィの独裁政権は インフラを壊滅させ 文化やリビアのモラルを破壊しました  
 Aware of the devastation and the challenges,  I was keen among many other women to rebuild the Libyan civil society,  calling for an inclusive and just transition  to democracy and national reconciliation.    	  私は 惨状と試練を理解の上で 周囲の女性と熱心に呼びかけました リビアの市民社会を再建するために 人民による総合的で公明な変革と 民主主義と国民融和を求めるために  
 Almost 200 organizations were established in Benghazi  during and immediately after the fall of Gaddafi --  almost 300 in Tripoli.    	  ベンガジ市にて約200団体が組織されました カダフィ政権下 また政権崩壊直後 首都トリポリでも約300団体ができました カダフィ政権下 また政権崩壊直後 首都トリポリでも約300団体ができました  
 After a period of 33 years in exile, I went back to Libya,  and with unique enthusiasm,  I started organizing workshops  on capacity building, on human development of leadership skills.    	  33年にも及ぶ亡命の後 私はリビアへ戻り 並外れた情熱をもって ワークショップを開催し始めたんです 能力育成や リーダーシップ訓練などです  
 With an amazing group of women,  I co-founded the Libyan Women's Platform for Peace,  a movement of women, leaders, from different walks of life,  to lobby for the sociopolitical empowerment of women  and to lobby for our right  for equal participation in building democracy and peace.    	  素晴らしい女性たちと共に 「リビア女性による平和を目指す会」を立ち上げました 多様な経験を持つ女性の活動や 指導者を支援し 女性の社会政治参加を促すように求めたり 民主主義の形成や平和活動に 女性も等しく共同参画できるよう 働きかけるためです 民主主義の形成や平和活動に 女性も等しく共同参画できるよう 働きかけるためです  
 I met a very difficult environment in the pre-elections,  an environment which was increasingly polarized,  an environment which was shaped by the selfish politics of dominance and exclusion.    	  予備選挙ではとても難しい環境にありました 対立が相次ぎ 利己的な政治によって 形成されてきた 支配的で排他的な環境です  
 I led an initiative by the Libyan Women's Platform for Peace  to lobby for a more inclusive electoral law,  a law that would give every citizen, no matter what your background,  the right to vote and run,  and most importantly to stipulate on political parties  the alternation of male and female candidates  vertically and horizontally in their lists,  creating the zipper list.    	  「リビア女性による平和を目指す会」によって 私は率先して より多くの人の選挙による 法律の制定を求めました どんな生い立ちの人であっても 全ての市民に 投票と立候補の権利を与えること どんな生い立ちの人であっても 全ての市民に 投票と立候補の権利を与えること さらに最も重要な事を 政党に求めました 男女の候補者名が― さらに最も重要な事を 政党に求めました 男女の候補者名が― 縦にも横にも交互に記名された こう「ジッパー」のようなリストにすること 縦にも横にも交互に記名された こう「ジッパー」のようなリストにすること  
 Eventually, our initiative was adopted and successful.    	  最終的に私たちの要求は 受け入れられ成功を収めました  
 Women won 17.5 percent of the National Congress  in the first elections ever in 52 years.    	  女性が17.5%の国会議席を勝ち取ったのです 過去52年間の選挙で初めてのことです  
   However, bit by bit, the euphoria of the elections,  and of the revolution as a whole,  was fading out --  for every day we were waking up to the news of violence.    	   しかしながら 少しずつ 選挙での喜びや 更には革命の喜びまでも 薄れていきました 毎朝起きては 暴力に満ちた報道を見ます  
 One day we wake up to the news  of the desecration of ancient mosques and Sufi tombs.    	  ある朝は こんなニュースです 古代モスクとスーフィ信者の墓での 神聖冒涜の話  
 On another day we wake up to the news  of the murder of the American ambassador and the attack on the consulate.    	  またある朝は こんなニュースです アメリカ人大使の殺人事件や 領事館への襲撃の話  
 On another day we wake up to the news  of the assassination of army officers.    	  そしてまたある朝は… 陸軍将校の暗殺事件など  
 And every day, every day we wake up with the rule of the militias  and their continuous violations of human rights of prisoners  and their disrespect of the rule of law.    	  毎日毎日 私たちは 市民軍の統治下で目覚めます 彼らは 囚人たちに対する人権侵害を やめようとせず― また 法による統治を軽視しています  
 Our society, shaped by a revolutionary mindset,  became more polarized  and has driven away from the ideals and the principles --  freedom, dignity, social justice --  that we first held.    	  革命の精神によって形づくられてきた 私たちの社会は よりバラバラになり 理想と大きくかけ離れていきました よりバラバラになり 理想と大きくかけ離れていきました 自由 尊厳 社会的公正… 私たちが最初に掲げたものから遠く 自由 尊厳 社会的公正… 私たちが最初に掲げたものから遠く  
 Intolerance, exclusion and revenge  became the icons of the [aftermath] of the revolution.    	  寛容のなさ 排他主義 そして報復 それが革命戦争の残した「余波」です  
 I am here today not at all to inspire you  with our success story of the zipper list and the elections.    	  私は今日 男女の候補者の「ジッパーリスト」と 選挙での成功について話すために来たのではなく 私は今日 男女の候補者の「ジッパーリスト」と 選挙での成功について話すために来たのではなく  
 I'm rather here today to confess  that we as a nation took the wrong choice, made the wrong decision.    	  むしろ 皆さんに告白しに来ました 私たちは国家として 間違った選択肢を選んでしまいました  
 We did not prioritize right.    	  正しく優先順位を付けられなかったのです  
 For elections did not bring peace and stability and security in Libya.    	  選挙ではリビアには平和や安定 安全をもたらすことはできませんでした  
 Did the zipper list and the alternation between female and male candidates  bring peace and national reconciliation?    	  男女交互の選挙候補者リスト 「ジッパーリスト」によって 国民は融合されたでしょうか？  
 No, it didn't.    	  いいえ 無理でした  
 What is it, then?    	  何が問題なのでしょう  
 Why does our society continue to be polarized and dominated  with selfish politics of dominance and exclusion, by both men and women?    	  なぜ私たちの社会は 今も バラバラで支配的なのでしょう 支配的で排他的で 利己的な政治のせい？ それも男女両性による？  
 Maybe what was missing was not the women only,  but the feminine values of compassion, mercy and inclusion.    	  足りていなかったのは「女性」だけでなく 「女性的な価値感」かもしれません 同情や慈悲 そして包容です  
 Our society needs national dialogue and consensus-building  more than it needed the elections,  which only reinforced polarization and division.    	  私たちの社会に必要なのは 国民の対話と総意の構築です 対立を助長しただけの選挙以前に 必要なものだったのです 対立を助長しただけの選挙以前に 必要なものだったのです  
 Our society needs the qualitative representation of the feminine  more than it needs the numerical, quantitative representation of the feminine.    	  私たちの社会は「女性の品性」を必要としていて それは 量的な意味での「女性の人数」以上に  大切なことだったのです  
 We need to stop acting as agents of rage and calling for days of rage.    	  私たちは怒りに動かされたり 抗議行動を呼びかけたりすることをやめ  
 We need to start acting as agents of compassion and mercy.    	  同情や慈悲の行動を起こさなくてはなりません  
 We need to develop a feminine discourse  that not only honors but also implements  mercy instead of revenge, collaboration instead of competition,  inclusion instead of exclusion.    	  女性の言葉で解決法を探さなくては 心掛けだけではなく 実行するのです 慈悲を 報復の代わりに 協力を 競争の代わりに 包容を 排除の代わりに  
 These are the ideals that a war-torn Libya  needs desperately in order to achieve peace.    	  これが 戦争でバラバラになったリビアが 平和達成のため 切に掲げる理想です これが 戦争でバラバラになったリビアが 平和達成のため 切に掲げる理想です  
 For peace has an alchemy,  and this alchemy is about the intertwining, the alternation  between the feminine and masculine perspectives.    	  平和への秘策があるのです この秘策とは 男性的な視点と女性的な視点 その両方を尊重する相互関係をつくることです この秘策とは 男性的な視点と女性的な視点 その両方を尊重する相互関係をつくることです  
 That's the real zipper.    	  これが本当の「ジッパー」です  
 And we need to establish that existentially  before we do so sociopolitically.    	  私たちはそれを現実にすべきなのです 社会政治学的に行動する前に 私たちはそれを現実にすべきなのです 社会政治学的に行動する前に  
 According to a Quranic verse  "Salam" -- peace -- "is the word of the all-merciful God, raheem."    	  コーランの言葉によると 「サラーム」とは 慈悲深い神 ラヒームのことを指します  
 In turn, the word "raheem," which is known in all Abrahamic traditions,  has the same root in Arabic as the word "rahem" -- womb --  symbolizing the maternal feminine encompassing all humanity  from which the male and the female,  from which all tribes, all peoples, have emanated from.    	  また アブラハムの伝統で指す「ラヒーム」は アラビア語の「ラヘム」と 同じ語源なのです 慈愛を含む 女性の母性を象徴する言葉です 男性 女性 両性によって そして すべての部族 すべての人々によって 発せられるものです  
 And so just as the womb entirely envelopes the embryo, which grows within it,  the divine matrix of compassion nourishes the entire existence.    	  つまり子宮がその中で育つ胎児を包み込むように 慈悲に満ち溢れた神聖な母体によって すべての存在が生かされています  
 Thus we are told that "My mercy encompasses all things."    	  私たちはこう教えられています 「私の慈悲はすべてを包み込む」  
 Thus we are told that "My mercy takes precedence over my anger."    	  私たちはこう教えられています 「私の慈悲は怒りを超越する」  
 May we all be granted a grace of mercy.    	  私たちがみな 慈悲の恩寵を与えられますように  
   Thank you.    	  （拍手） ありがとうございました  
 I'm here today to talk about a disturbing question,  which has an equally disturbing answer.    	  今日 私が話す内容は 質問するのも 答えるのも嫌になる内容  
 My topic is the secrets of domestic violence,  and the question I'm going to tackle  is the one question everyone always asks:  Why does she stay?    	  家庭内暴力の秘密 について話します みなさんがよく尋ねる質問に 答えたいと思います　 それは― 「なぜ逃げないの？」  
 Why would anyone stay with a man who beats her?    	  「なぜ暴力を振るう男と一緒にいるの？」 という質問です  
 I'm not a psychiatrist, a social worker  or an expert in domestic violence.    	  私は精神科医でも ソーシャルワーカーでもありません 家庭内暴力の エキスパートでもありません  
 I'm just one woman with a story to tell.    	  単なる経験者なんです  
 I was 22. I had just graduated from Harvard College.    	  22歳の時 ハーバード大学を卒業しました  
 I had moved to New York City for my first job  as a writer and editor at Seventeen magazine.    	  そして 就職先の ニューヨークに引っ越して 雑誌セブンティーンの 記者と編集者として働きました  
 I had my first apartment,  my first little green American Express card,  and I had a very big secret.    	  初めてのアパートを借り 人生初のクレジットカードも持ち 一方で 大きな秘密を抱えてました  
 My secret was that I had this gun  loaded with hollow-point bullets pointed at my head  by the man who I thought was my soulmate,  many, many times.    	  弾の入った銃が 私の頭に向けられていたのです 私がソウルメイトと 信じた男によって 何度も 何度も  
 The man who I loved more than anybody on Earth  held a gun to my head and threatened to kill me  more times than I can even remember.    	  地球上で 私が最も愛した男は 私に銃を向け 「殺す」と脅しました 何度されたか 思い出せないくらい何回も  
 I'm here to tell you the story of crazy love,  a psychological trap disguised as love,  one that millions of women and even a few men  fall into every year.    	  今日は ”危険な愛” について話します 愛に扮した心の罠 何百万人の女性と男性までもが 毎年経験する 愛の話です  
 It may even be your story.    	  あなたの話かもしれません  
 I don't look like a typical domestic violence survivor.    	  私は 典型的な家庭内暴力の 元被害者には見えないでしょう  
 I have a B.A. in English from Harvard College,  an MBA in marketing from Wharton Business School.    	  ハーバード大学で 英語学の学位を習得し ワートン・ビジネススクールで マーケティングでMBAを取得しました  
 I've spent most of my career working for Fortune 500 companies  including Johnson & Johnson, Leo Burnett and The Washington Post.    	  そして 収入の高い会社で キャリアを積んできました ジョンソン・エンド・ジョンソン ワシントン・ポストでも働きました  
 I've been married for almost 20 years to my second husband  and we have three kids together.    	  ２人目の夫と 結婚して 約20年経ちます ３人の子供にも恵まれました  
 My dog is a black lab, and I drive a Honda Odyssey minivan.    	  黒のラブラドールを飼っていて 車はホンダのミニバンです  
   So my first message for you is that domestic violence  happens to everyone --  all races, all religions, all income and education levels.    	   私の１つ目のメッセージは家庭内暴力というものは 誰にも起こり得るということです 人種も宗教も 収入も学歴も関係ありません  
 It's everywhere.    	  どこでも起こり得るのです  
 And my second message is that everyone thinks  domestic violence happens to women,  that it's a women's issue.    	  ２つ目のメッセージは 家庭内暴力は女性に起きるもの だから 女性の問題と 思われがちですが  
 Not exactly.    	  必ずしもそうとは言えません  
 Over 85 percent of abusers are men, and domestic abuse  happens only in intimate, interdependent, long-term relationships,  in other words, in families,  the last place we would want or expect to find violence,  which is one reason domestic abuse is so confusing.    	  加害者の85％以上は男性です 暴力は 親密で相互依存した 長い付き合いのカップルに起きます つまり 家庭で 起きているのです 最も暴力が 存在してほしくないと願う場所です だから 家庭内暴力は やっかいものなのです  
 I would have told you myself that I was the last person on Earth  who would stay with a man who beats me,  but in fact I was a very typical victim because of my age.    	  ”暴力を振るう男性と 一緒にならない人間” 自分ではそうだと信じていました しかし 私の年齢こそ 典型的な被害者の特徴でした  
 I was 22, and in the United States,  women ages 16 to 24 are three times as likely  to be domestic violence victims  as women of other ages,  and over 500 women and girls this age  are killed every year by abusive partners,  boyfriends, and husbands in the United States.    	  当時 私は22歳でした アメリカ人女性の 16歳から24歳の女性は 他の年齢と比べると 被害者になる確率が ３倍も高いのです アメリカでは この年齢層の 500人以上の女性が 暴力的な彼氏や夫によって 毎年 命を失っているのです  
 I was also a very typical victim because I knew nothing  about domestic violence, its warning signs or its patterns.    	  ”無知”だったのも典型です 家庭内暴力の危険信号や パターンを知りませんでした  
 I met Conor on a cold, rainy January night.    	  コーナーに会ったのは 寒い１月の雨の夜  
 He sat next to me on the New York City subway,  and he started chatting me up.    	  ニューヨークの地下鉄で 彼は私の隣に座りました そして 私を口説きました  
 He told me two things.    	  彼は ２つの事を教えてくれました  
 One was that he, too, had just graduated from an Ivy League school,  and that he worked at a very impressive Wall Street bank.    	  彼も アメリカ屈指の 名門大学を卒業したこと そして ウォール街の 銀行で働いているということです  
 But what made the biggest impression on me that first meeting  was that he was smart and funny  and he looked like a farm boy.    	  この時 彼への 強い第一印象は 頭が良く 面白いということ そして 田舎者に見えました  
 He had these big cheeks, these big apple cheeks  and this wheat-blond hair,  and he seemed so sweet.    	  彼の 大きくて赤い丸い頬 輝く金色の髪の毛 とても優しそうに見えました  
 One of the smartest things Conor did, from the very beginning,  was to create the illusion that I was the dominant partner in the relationship.    	  知り合いたての頃 彼の行動は 賢いものでした 私が主導権を握っていると 勘違いさせるのです  
 He did this especially at the beginning  by idolizing me.    	  特に出会ってすぐの頃は 私を崇拝しているかのようでした  
 We started dating, and he loved everything about me,  that I was smart, that I'd gone to Harvard,  that I was passionate about helping teenage girls, and my job.    	  付き合い始めると　 彼は私のすべてを愛しました 私の頭の良さや ハーバード大学出であること 10代の少女を助けることや 仕事に熱心だということ  
 He wanted to know everything about my family  and my childhood and my hopes and dreams.    	  彼は私の全てを 知りたがりました 家族や 幼少期のこと 望みや 夢など全てです  
 Conor believed in me, as a writer and a woman,  in a way that no one else ever had.    	  彼は私を 記者として 女性として信頼していました こんなことは 彼が初めてでした  
 And he also created a magical atmosphere of trust between us  by confessing his secret,  which was that, as a very young boy starting at age four,  he had been savagely and repeatedly physically abused  by his stepfather,  and the abuse had gotten so bad that he had had to drop out of school in eighth grade,  even though he was very smart,  and he'd spent almost 20 years rebuilding his life.    	  彼は秘密を打ち明けることで 私たちの間にー ”信用”を築き上げました 秘密とは ４歳頃から 義理の父親から継続的でひどい 暴力をふるわれていたのです 義理の父親から継続的でひどい 暴力をふるわれていたのです 虐待はエスカレートし 中学２年生で中退したのです ”できる”生徒 だったのにも関わらず そして 約20年間を 人生のやり直しに費やしたのです  
 Which is why that Ivy League degree  and the Wall Street job and his bright shiny future  meant so much to him.    	  だから 名門大学を卒業し ウォール街で働き 待ち受ける輝かしい未来は 彼にとって 非常に意味があったのです  
 If you had told me  that this smart, funny, sensitive man who adored me  would one day dictate whether or not I wore makeup,  how short my skirts were,  where I lived, what jobs I took,  who my friends were and where I spent Christmas,  I would have laughed at you,  because there was not a hint of violence or control  or anger in Conor at the beginning.    	  当時の私は 笑い飛ばしたでしょう この賢くて面白く 繊細な男がー 化粧をするかどうか スカートの丈が短いかどうか どこに住み どこで働くか だれと友達になり クリスマスをどこで過ごすか 指図するようになると言われたら 最初の頃の彼に 暴力性や支配力 怒りなど見られなかったのです  
 I didn't know that the first stage  in any domestic violence relationship  is to seduce and charm the victim.    	  私は知りませんでした どの家庭内暴力でも 相手を魅了し 誘惑することから始まりー  
 I also didn't know that the second step is to isolate the victim.    	  次段階では 相手を 孤立させるということを  
 Now, Conor did not come home one day and announce,  "You know, hey, all this Romeo and Juliet stuff has been great,  but I need to move into the next phase  where I isolate you and I abuse you" —  —  "so I need to get you out of this apartment  where the neighbors can hear you scream  and out of this city where you have friends and family  and coworkers who can see the bruises."    	  ある日 彼が帰宅して突然 こう言ったわけではありません 「ロミオとジュリエットのような 日々は最高だったね」 「でも 次の段階に進みたいんだ」 「君を隔離して痛めつけたいんだ」  「今から引っ越そう」 「近所に叫び声を聞かれずにー」 「君の友達も家族もいなくてー」 「同僚に あざがバレない所にさ」  
 Instead, Conor came home one Friday evening  and he told me that he had quit his job that day,  his dream job,  and he said that he had quit his job because of me,  because I had made him feel so safe and loved  that he didn't need to prove himself on Wall Street anymore,  and he just wanted to get out of the city  and away from his abusive, dysfunctional family,    	  現実には ある金曜日 仕事から戻った彼は 仕事を辞めたと言ってきたのです 彼の夢の仕事ですよ 私が理由で辞めたと言うのです 私が彼に 安心と愛を与えたから ウォール街で 自分の証明をする必要がなくなったと ただ街を出たいと言ったのです 暴力にまみれ 崩壊した家族から離れて  
 and move to a tiny town in New England  where he could start his life over with me by his side.    	  ニューイングランドの 小さな町に引っ越し 私と人生を 再スタートさせたいと言ったのです  
 Now, the last thing I wanted to do was leave New York,  and my dream job,  but I thought you made sacrifices for your soulmate,  so I agreed, and I quit my job,  and Conor and I left Manhattan together.    	  ニューヨークを離れることは 私が最もしたくないことでした 私の夢の仕事も 辞めたくありませんでした でも ソウルメイトのためには 自分を犠牲にするべきだと信じていたのです だから 彼に賛成し 仕事を辞めました 私たちは マンハッタンを後にしました  
 I had no idea I was falling into crazy love,  that I was walking headfirst into a carefully laid  physical, financial and psychological trap.    	  危険な恋をしていると 思いもしませんでした 慎重に計画された 肉体的 金銭的 精神的な罠に 私は頭から 飛び込んでいったのです  
 The next step in the domestic violence pattern  is to introduce the threat of violence  and see how she reacts.    	  家庭内暴力の 次の段階のパターンは 暴力を垣間見せることです そして 相手の反応を見るのです  
 And here's where those guns come in.    	  私たちの生活に銃が 紛れ込んだのは この段階でした  
 As soon as we moved to New England -- you know,  that place where Connor was supposed to feel so safe --  he bought three guns.    	  ニューイングランドに 引っ越した直後でした 彼が安心して 暮らせると言っていた場所です 彼は３丁の銃を購入したのです  
 He kept one in the glove compartment of our car.    	  ダッシュボードの中に１丁  
 He kept one under the pillows on our bed,  and the third one he kept in his pocket at all times.    	  ベッドの枕の下に１丁 そして最後の１丁は ポケットの中に常備していました  
 And he said that he needed those guns  because of the trauma he'd experienced as a young boy.    	  銃がいる理由を 教えてくれました 少年時代の経験が トラウマになっていて  
 He needed them to feel protected.    	  銃があると 守られていると感じるのだと  
 But those guns were really a message for me,  and even though he hadn't raised a hand to me,  my life was already in grave danger every minute of every day.    	  しかし実際は私への メッセージだったのです この時点で 暴力はありませんでしたが 私の生活は 毎日少しずつ 重大な危険に近づいていたのです  
 Conor first physically attacked me  five days before our wedding.    	  彼が私に初めて 暴力を振るったのは 結婚式の５日前でした  
 It was 7 a.m. I still had on my nightgown.    	  朝の７時 私はまだ ねまきを着ていました  
 I was working on my computer trying to finish a freelance writing assignment,  and I got frustrated,  and Conor used my anger as an excuse  to put both of his hands around my neck  and to squeeze so tightly that I could not breathe or scream,  and he used the chokehold  to hit my head repeatedly against the wall.    	  フリーランスの執筆の仕事を 終わらせようと パソコンに向かい イライラしていました 彼は私の怒りを言い訳に 両手で私の首を絞めたのです 息も 叫ぶこともできない程 強く絞められました 彼は私の首を絞めたまま 私の頭を壁に 何度も叩き付けたのです  
 Five days later, the ten bruises on my neck had just faded,  and I put on my mother's wedding dress,  and I married him.    	  首の10個のあざが やっと消えた５日後に 私は母のウェディングドレスを着て 彼と結婚しました  
 Despite what had happened,  I was sure we were going to live happily ever after,  because I loved him, and he loved me so much.    	  こんな事が起きたにも関わらず 私は幸せな生活が 待っていると信じていました なぜならば 私たちは お互いに愛し合っていたからです  
 And he was very, very sorry.    	  また彼は深く反省していました  
 He had just been really stressed out by the wedding  and by becoming a family with me.    	  結婚式や 私と家族になることが ストレスになっていたと  
 It was an isolated incident,  and he was never going to hurt me again.    	  今回限りであって もう暴力を振るわないと 約束しました  
 It happened twice more on the honeymoon.    	  しかし ハネムーンで ２度同じことが起きました  
 The first time, I was driving to find a secret beach  and I got lost,  and he punched me in the side of my head so hard  that the other side of my head repeatedly hit  the driver's side window.    	  私が穴場のビーチへ運転していて 道に迷ってしまったのです すると彼は私の側頭部を 思い切り殴りつけました 殴られなかった側の頭は 何度も 運転席の窓に 打ち付けられました  
 And then a few days later, driving home from our honeymoon,  he got frustrated by traffic,  and he threw a cold Big Mac in my face.    	  それから数日後 ハネムーンから帰宅する車の中で 彼は渋滞に我慢できなくなり 冷えたハンバーガーを 私の顔に投げつけました  
 Conor proceeded to beat me once or twice a week  for the next two and a half years of our marriage.    	  彼は週に１〜２度 暴力を振るうようになり これが２年半ほど続きました  
 I was mistaken in thinking that I was unique  and alone in this situation.    	  私はこの状況を 勘違いしていました 特別で孤独な状況と 思っていたのです  
 One in three American women  experiences domestic violence or stalking at some point in her life,  and the CDC reports that 15 million children  are abused every year, 15 million.    	  アメリカ人女性の３人に１人は 家庭内暴力や ストーカーの被害者なのです また CDCの統計によると 毎年1500万人の子供が 虐待されています 1500万人ですよ  
 So actually, I was in very good company.    	  つまり 私と同じ状況の 仲間がたくさんいたのです  
 Back to my question:  Why did I stay?    	  最初の質問に戻ります 「なぜ逃げなかったのか？」  
 The answer is easy.    	  答えは簡単です  
 I didn't know he was abusing me.    	  私は暴力を受けていると 認識していなかったのです  
 Even though he held those loaded guns to my head,  pushed me down stairs,  threatened to kill our dog,  pulled the key out of the car ignition as I drove down the highway,  as I dressed for a job interview,  I never once thought of myself as a battered wife.    	  頭に銃が向けられても 階段から落とされても ペットの犬を殺すと脅されても 高速道路を運転中に 車の鍵を抜かれても 仕事の面接のために 服を着替えた後ー 熱いコーヒーの粉を 頭にかけられてもです 暴力を受けていると 一度も思いませんでした  
 Instead, I was a very strong woman  in love with a deeply troubled man,  and I was the only person on Earth  who could help Conor face his demons.    	  代わりに とても強い 女性だと思っていました 多くの問題を 抱えた男を愛した女 そして地球上で私だけが 悪魔と立ち向かう彼を 助けられると思っていたのです  
 The other question everybody asks is,  why doesn't she just leave?    	  皆から聞かれる もう１つの質問 「どうして逃げないの？」  
 Why didn't I walk out? I could have left any time.    	  なぜ出て行かなかったのか？ いつでも逃げられたのに  
 To me, this is the saddest and most painful question that people ask,  because we victims know something you usually don't:  It's incredibly dangerous to leave an abuser.    	  私にとって この質問が 最も悲しく辛い質問です それは 被害者にしか 分からない事があるからです 暴力者から逃げるのは 非常に危険だということです  
 Because the final step in the domestic violence pattern  is kill her.    	  家庭内暴力の 最終段階のパターンは 相手を殺すことです  
 Over 70 percent of domestic violence murders  happen after the victim has ended the relationship,  after she's gotten out,  because then the abuser has nothing left to lose.    	  家庭内暴力による 殺人の70％以上は 被害者が関係を 終わらせた後に起きています 被害者が逃げてからです もう加害者には 失う物が何もないからです  
 Other outcomes include long-term stalking,  even after the abuser remarries;  denial of financial resources;  and manipulation of the family court system  to terrify the victim and her children,  who are regularly forced by family court judges  to spend unsupervised time  with the man who beat their mother.    	  長期のストーカー行為に 発展することもあります 相手が再婚した後でさえも 経済援助を拒否したり 家庭裁判所の 制度をうまく使い 被害者と その子供に 恐怖を与えるのです 裁判所の判断によっては 子供たちは定期的に 第三者を交えず 父親と会わなくてはなりません 母親に暴力を振るう父親ですよ  
 And still we ask, why doesn't she just leave?    	  知りたいですよね？ それでも なぜ逃げないのか  
 I was able to leave,  because of one final, sadistic beating  that broke through my denial.    	  私は逃げる事ができました 最後に受けた 残虐な暴力によって 否定し続けたことが 壊されたからです  
 I realized that the man who I loved so much  was going to kill me if I let him.    	  やっと私は気付いたのです 私が心から愛する男は 私を殺すかも知れないと  
 So I broke the silence.    	  だから私は沈黙を破りました  
 I told everyone:  the police, my neighbors,  my friends and family, total strangers,  and I'm here today because you all helped me.    	  周りの人 全員に話したのです 警察や近所のみんな 友達や家族 全く知らない人にまで そして今日 ここにいられるのも そんな皆さんのおかげです  
 We tend to stereotype victims  as grisly headlines,  self-destructive women, damaged goods.    	  私たちは被害者を 一方的に決めつけがちです 新聞の一面トップになるような 自滅的な女性だと 思い込んでいます  
 The question, "Why does she stay?"    	  「なぜ逃げないのか」 という質問をするのは  
 is code for some people for, "It's her fault for staying,"  as if victims intentionally choose to fall in love with men  intent upon destroying us.    	  「逃げない彼女の責任」と 決め付けるようなものです まるで被害者は わざと暴力を振るう男性に 恋をしたとでもいうように  
 But since publishing "Crazy Love,"  I have heard hundreds of stories from men and women  who also got out,  who learned an invaluable life lesson from what happened,  and who rebuilt lives -- joyous, happy lives --  as employees, wives and mothers,  lives completely free of violence, like me.    	  しかし『Crazy Love』の出版以来 性別問わず 多くの話を聞きました 逃げることができた人々です 経験を通し貴重な 人生の教訓を得た人たち 楽しく 幸せな 新しい人生を スタートさせた人たち 仕事をしたり 妻や母として 皆 私と同様に 暴力が 完全に存在しない人生を送っています  
 Because it turns out that I'm actually a very typical domestic violence victim  and a typical domestic violence survivor.    	  私は家庭内暴力の 典型的な被害者の一人でした また典型的な暴力から 逃げれた被害者の一人です  
 I remarried a kind and gentle man,  and we have those three kids.    	  私はとても優しい男性と再婚しました ３人の子供に恵まれました  
 I have that black lab, and I have that minivan.    	  黒のラブラドールを飼い ミニバンを運転しています  
 What I will never have again,  ever,  is a loaded gun held to my head  by someone who says that he loves me.    	  私が２度と手に入れないものは ２度と・・・ それは ”頭に向けられる銃”です 私を愛してるという 男から向けられる銃です  
 Right now, maybe you're thinking,  "Wow, this is fascinating,"  or, "Wow, how stupid was she,"  but this whole time, I've actually been talking about you.    	  今 あなたたちは 考えていることでしょう 「すばらしい話だ」 とか 「彼女は なんて馬鹿だったんだ」 しかし 実はずっと あなたのことを話していました  
 I promise you there are several people  listening to me right now  who are currently being abused  or who were abused as children  or who are abusers themselves.    	  私は知っていますよ あなたたちの中にも 現在 暴力を受けている方が いるということを 子供の頃に 虐待された方や 加害者も いるかもしれません  
 Abuse could be affecting your daughter,  your sister, your best friend right now.    	  暴力はあなたの娘や 親友の人生を 脅かしているかもしれないのです  
 I was able to end my own crazy love story  by breaking the silence.    	  私は自分で"危険な恋”を 終わらせることができました 沈黙を破ったからです  
 I'm still breaking the silence today.    	  今日も沈黙を破り続けています  
 It's my way of helping other victims,  and it's my final request of you.    	  これが私なりの 他の被害者を助ける方法です あなたに最後のお願いです  
 Talk about what you heard here.    	  ここで聞いた事を話してください  
 Abuse thrives only in silence.    	  暴力は沈黙の中で 脅威を振るいます  
 You have the power to end domestic violence  simply by shining a spotlight on it.    	  あなたには 暴力を止める力があります 単にそこに スポットライトを当てるだけです  
 We victims need everyone.    	  私たち被害者は 皆さんを必要としています  
 We need every one of you to understand  the secrets of domestic violence.    	  皆さんの理解が必要です 家庭内暴力の秘密について  
 Show abuse the light of day by talking about it  with your children, your coworkers,  your friends and family.    	  伝える事で暴力に スポットを当てて下さい あなたの子供や同僚 友達や家族に話して下さい  
 Recast survivors as wonderful, lovable people  with full futures.    	  元被害者のイメージを変えて下さい 素晴らしく 愛されるべき 未来を持つ人々だと  
 Recognize the early signs of violence  and conscientiously intervene,  deescalate it, show victims a safe way out.    	  暴力の早期の兆候に気づき 仲介して下さい 暴力を終わらせ 被害者に安全な出口を教えて下さい  
 Together we can make our beds,  our dinner tables and our families  the safe and peaceful oases they should be.    	  皆で力を合わせれば 安心して眠り 食事を楽しみ 家族と過ごせる 本来 安全で幸せな オアシスであるべき家庭を作れるのです  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとう  
 Hi. My name is Cameron Russell,  and for the last little while, I've been a model.    	  こんにちは キャメロン・ラッセルです ここ何年かの間 モデルをやっています ここ何年かの間 モデルをやっています  
 Actually, for 10 years.    	  実際には10年になります  
 And I feel like  there's an uncomfortable tension in the room right now  because I should not have worn this dress.   So luckily, I brought an outfit change.    	  この会場には 何かピリピリした 空気が漂っていますが この会場には 何かピリピリした 空気が漂っていますが きっと 私がこんな服を 着ているからですね  幸い 着替えを持ってきました  
 This is the first outfit change on the TED stage,  so you guys are pretty lucky to witness it, I think.    	  TED史上初 ステージ上での 衣装替えなので これを見られる皆さんは ラッキーだと思います  
 If some of the women were really horrified when I came out,  you don't have to tell me now, but I'll find out later on Twitter.    	  私がステージに出てくるのを見て どうなる事かと心配した方がいましたら 別に手を挙げなくてもいいですけど 後ほどツイッターで見つけますから  
  I'd also note that I'm quite privileged  to be able to transform what you think of me  in a very brief 10 seconds.    	  別に手を挙げなくてもいいですけど 後ほどツイッターで見つけますから こんなこと出来て本当にうれしいんです 皆さんの私に対する考えを ほんの１０秒のうちに変えられるなんて  
 Not everybody gets to do that.    	  そんなチャンス滅多にありませんものね  
 These heels are very uncomfortable, so good thing I wasn't going to wear them.    	  このヒールは疲れるので 別の靴を持ってきて良かったわ  
 The worst part is putting this sweater over my head,  because that's when you'll all laugh at me,  so don't do anything while it's over my head.    	  このヒールは疲れるので 別の靴を持ってきて良かったわ セーターをかぶる時 みんな笑うんですよ 滑稽な姿をしていても バカにしないでくださいね  
 All right.    	  これでいいですね  
 So, why did I do that?    	  なぜこんな事 お見せしたと思いますか？  
 That was awkward.   Well --  Hopefully not as awkward as that picture.    	  お見苦しいものを お見せしました まあでも この写真よりは マシだったと良いんですが  
 Image is powerful,  but also, image is superficial.    	  イメージというものは 強烈です しかし同時に イメージとは 表面的なものなんです  
 I just totally transformed what you thought of me, in six seconds.    	  私はたった今 数秒で 自分のイメージを変えました  
 And in this picture,  I had actually never had a boyfriend in real life.    	  この写真の当時 実は男の子と付き合ったこともなく  
 I was totally uncomfortable,  and the photographer was telling me to arch my back  and put my hand in that guy's hair.    	  やりにくい撮影で カメラマンの指示に従い 背中を反らせたり 男性の髪に手をやったりしたんです  
 And of course, barring surgery,  or the fake tan that I got two days ago for work,  there's very little that we can do to transform how we look,  and how we look, though it is superficial and immutable,  has a huge impact on our lives.    	  もちろん 手術や こんな撮影のため数日前にやった ニセ日焼けが無ければ 容姿を変えることなど ほとんどできません 単に表面的で 変えられないものだと 分かっていても 外見というものは 私生活に莫大な影響を及ぼします  
 So today, for me, being fearless means being honest.    	  私にとって このイベントのテーマである 「勇気」とは真実を話す事だと思います  
 And I am on this stage because I am a model.    	  私はモデルだから このステージに立っています  
 I am on this stage because I am a pretty, white woman,  and in my industry, we call that a sexy girl.    	  顔立ちがよく そして白人なので このステージにいるんです 業界用語では セクシーガールといいます  
 I'm going to answer the questions that people always ask me,  but with an honest twist.    	  今日は よく聞かれる質問に 答えたいと思います 普段と違って 正直にね  
 So the first question is, how do you become a model?    	  まず聞かれるのは どうやってモデルになったか  
 I always just say, "Oh, I was scouted,"  but that means nothing. The real way that I became a model  is I won a genetic lottery, and I am the recipient of a legacy,  and maybe you're wondering what is a legacy.    	  いつも 「スカウトされたから」 と答えますが これでは答えになっていません モデルになれた真の理由は 偉大な伝承物をうけとったからです 受け継がれた伝承物は何かというと  
 Well, for the past few centuries  we have defined beauty not just as health and youth  and symmetry that we're biologically programmed to admire,  but also as tall, slender figures,  and femininity and white skin.    	  この数世紀の間 私たちの定義する美しさは 単に健康 若さ 均整といった 生物学的に 称賛するよう 仕込まれてきた要素だけでなく 長身で すらっとした体型 女性らしさや 白い肌なども 含むようになりました  
 And this is a legacy that was built for me,  and it's a legacy that I've been cashing out on.    	  この様に 私に都合良く 受け継がれて来た ものを使って稼いでいるわけです この様に 私に都合良く 受け継がれて来た ものを使って稼いでいるわけです  
 And I know there are people in the audience  who are skeptical at this point,  and maybe there are some fashionistas who are like,  "Wait. Naomi. Tyra. Joan Smalls. Liu Wen."    	  これを疑問視する人もいるでしょう ファッションに詳しい方は こう言うかもしれません ファッションに詳しい方は こう言うかもしれません 「ナオミやタイラ､ジョン・スモールズ､リウ・ウェンなど 白人以外のモデルもいるぞ」  
 And first, I commend you on your model knowledge. Very impressive.    	  モデルのことを よくご存知で すばらしいですね  
   But unfortunately, I have to inform you that in 2007,  a very inspired NYU Ph.D. student  counted all the models on the runway, every single one that was hired,  and of the 677 models that were hired,  only 27, or less than four percent, were non-white.    	   でも実は そうではないんです 2007年 ニューヨーク大の 聡明な博士課程の大学院生が ランウェイを歩くモデルを 一人残らず数えました 雇用された677人のモデルのうち 白人以外の人種は ４％未満の27人だけだったんです  
 The next question people always ask is,  "Can I be a model when I grow up?"    	  次によく聞かれる質問は 「大人になったら 私もモデルになれますか？」  
 And the first answer is, "I don't know, they don't put me in charge of that."    	  「さあ それは私が決めることでないし」 とまず言ってから  
 But the second answer, and what I really want to say to these little girls is,  "Why? You know? You can be anything.    	  尋ねてきた少女たちに訊くんです 「なぜモデルになりたいの？ 他にも いろいろなれるじゃない  
 You could be the President of the United States,  or the inventor of the next Internet,  or a ninja cardiothoracic surgeon poet,  which would be awesome, because you'd be the first one."    	  米国大統領とか 次世代インターネットの発明者とか 米国大統領とか 次世代インターネットの発明者とか あるいは 忍者心胸外科医詩人なんてどう？ まだ誰もなってないんだから 最高じゃない？」  
   If, after this amazing list, they still are like,  "No, no, Cameron, I want to be a model,"  well, then I say, "Be my boss."    	   こうやって他の選択肢を挙げても 「私はモデルになりたいの」と言ったら 「だったら私のボスになるといいわ」 と私は答えるの  
 Because I'm not in charge of anything,  and you could be the editor in chief of American Vogue  or the CEO of H&M, or the next Steven Meisel.    	  私には何の権限もないけれど 米版『ヴォーグ』の編集長や H&MのCEO あるいは 次のスティーヴン・マイゼルに なれるかもしれません  
 Saying that you want to be a model when you grow up  is akin to saying that you want to win the Powerball when you grow up.    	  モデルになりたいというのは 「宝くじを当てたい」と言うのと 同じことなんです  
 It's out of your control, and it's awesome,  and it's not a career path.    	  素晴らしいことですが 自分の力ではどうにもならないことであり キャリアとして 成長できるものでもないんです  
 I will demonstrate for you now 10 years of accumulated model knowledge,  because unlike cardiothoracic surgeons,  it can just be distilled right now.    	  10年間積み上げてきた モデルの知識を披露します 心胸外科医と違って 短く要約 できちゃいます  
 So, if the photographer is right there,  the light is right there, like a nice HMI,  and the client says, "We want a walking shot,"  this leg goes first, nice and long, this arm goes back, this arm goes forward,  the head is at three quarters, and you just go back and forth,  just do that, and then you look back at your imaginary friends,  300, 400, 500 times.   It will look something like this.     	  カメラマンがそこにいるとします ここにライトがあって 「歩いている写真が撮りたい」 と言われたら 左足を 前方に 真っ直ぐ伸ばし 左手は後ろ 右手は前にやります 頭は45度に保ち こうやって前後を繰り返します 友だちがいると想定して 振り向くんです 300回・・400回・・500回くらいね そしてこんな感じに 仕上がります  
 Hopefully less awkward than that one in the middle.    	  真ん中の写真は ちょっと不自然ですが  
 That was -- I don't know what happened there.    	  なんで こうなったんでしょうね  
 Unfortunately, after you've gone to school,  and you have a résumé and you've done a few jobs,  you can't say anything anymore,  so if you say you want to be the President of the United States,  but your résumé reads, "Underwear Model: 10 years,"  people give you a funny look.    	  学校を卒業して 仕事の経験もあるとしても それ以上 履歴書に書けることはありません 例えば 米国大統領に なりたいとします しかし履歴書には 「下着モデル10年」 採用担当者は おかしな顔をします  
 The next question is, "Do they retouch all the photos?"    	  さて 次に聞かれる質問は 「画像修整はしているの？」  
 And yeah, they pretty much retouch all the photos,  but that is only a small component of what's happening.    	  ほぼ全ての写真が修整されます でも それだけではないんです  
 This picture is the very first picture that I ever took,  and it's also the very first time that I had worn a bikini,  and I didn't even have my period yet.    	  この写真は私の処女作です 人生で初めて ビキニを着た時でもあります 生理すら始まっていませんでした  
 I know we're getting personal, but I was a young girl.    	  私生活のことに触れますが 私は ごく普通の少女でした  
 This is what I looked like with my grandma just a few months earlier.    	  これは撮影数ヶ月前に おばあちゃんと撮った写真です  
 Here's me on the same day as this shoot.    	  ２つは同じ日に撮った写真です  
 My friend got to come.    	  友だちが一緒に来てくれました  
 Here's me at a slumber party a few days before I shot French Vogue.    	  仏版『ヴォーグ』の撮影数日前に パジャマパーティをした写真です  
 Here's me on the soccer team and in V Magazine.    	  サッカーチームでの写真と 『V マガジン』の写真です  
 And here's me today.    	  そして最近の写真です  
 And I hope what you're seeing  is that these pictures are not pictures of me.    	  皆さんが見ているのは 本当の私ではないですよね  
 They are constructions,  and they are constructions by a group of professionals,  by hairstylists and makeup artists and photographers and stylists  and all of their assistants and pre-production and post-production,  and they build this. That's not me.    	  これらは作品であり ヘアスタイリスト　メイクアップアーティスト カメラマン スタイリスト等の専門家を初め ヘアスタイリスト　メイクアップアーティスト カメラマン スタイリスト等の専門家を始め 彼らのアシスタントや プリプロ・ポスプロ等 皆で作りあげる作品であり 「私」ではないんです  
 Okay, so the next question people always ask me is,  "Do you get free stuff?"    	  さて 次によく聞かれるのは 「無料で色々もらえるの？」  
 I do have too many 8-inch heels which I never get to wear,  except for earlier,  but the free stuff that I get is the free stuff that I get in real life,  and that's what we don't like to talk about.    	  日常では絶対に使わない 20cmのヒールなら余るほどあります 撮影前には履きますけどね 無料でもらえるものと言えば 私生活で得られるもので 普通はあまり口にされません  
 I grew up in Cambridge,  and one time I went into a store and I forgot my money  and they gave me the dress for free.    	  地元のケンブリッジで ショッピングに行ったとき お金を忘れてしまいました しかし 欲しかったドレスが タダで貰えたんです  
 When I was a teenager, I was driving with my friend  who was an awful driver and she ran a red and of course,  we got pulled over,  and all it took was a "Sorry, officer," and we were on our way.    	  ティーンの時 友だちと ドライブしていました 赤信号を突っ切ってしまい 警察に止められましたが 「お巡りさん ごめんなさい」 と言うと  
 And I got these free things because of how I look,  not who I am, and there are people paying a cost  for how they look and not who they are.    	  見逃してもらえました こういった無料のものは 私自身に関係なく 私の外見のおかげで 得られるんです 反対に 単に外見のため 犠牲を払う人たちもいます  
 I live in New York, and last year,  of the 140,000 teenagers that were stopped and frisked,  86% of them were black and Latino, and most of them were young men.    	  私の住むニューヨークで 昨年 14万人のティーンが 所持品検査を受けさせられましたが そのうち86％が 黒人かラテン系であり そのほとんどが若い男性でした  
 And there are only 177,000 young black and Latino men in New York,  so for them, it's not a question of, "Will I get stopped?"    	  ニューヨークには黒人とラテン系の 若者は17万7千人しかいませんから 彼らにしてみれば 「検査を受けさせられるのか？」ではなく  
 but "How many times will I get stopped? When will I get stopped?"    	  「何回受けさせられるのか？ それはいつか？」なんです  
 When I was researching this talk,  I found out that of the 13-year-old girls in the United States,  53% don't like their bodies,  and that number goes to 78% by the time that they're 17.    	  今回話す内容を検討中に あることを発見しました アメリカに住む13歳の少女のうち 53％が自分の体を嫌っていて 17歳になるころには その値は78％にも上がっています  
 So, the last question people ask me is,  "What is it like to be a model?"    	  さて よく聞かれる最後の質問は 「モデルってどうなの？」です さて よく聞かれる最後の質問は 「モデルってどうなの？」です  
 And I think the answer that they're looking for is,  "If you are a little bit skinnier and you have shinier hair,  you will be so happy and fabulous."    	  質問者の期待する答えというのは 「すらっとして 髪が美しかったら 幸せで 有名になれるわ」です  
 And when we're backstage,  we give an answer that maybe makes it seem like that.    	  舞台裏でのインタビューとかを聞いて そう思うのかもしれません  
 We say, "It's really amazing to travel, and it's amazing to get to work  with creative, inspired, passionate people."    	  私たちはこう答えます 「世界中を飛び回り 才能があり 情熱を持つ クリエイティブな人たちと 仕事ができるのは 素晴らしいです」  
 And those things are true, but they're only one half of the story,  because the thing that we never say on camera,  that I have never said on camera, is,  "I am insecure."    	  確かに嘘では ありませんが 真実の半分でしかありません 誰もカメラに向かっては 絶対に言わないもの 現に私も言ったことはありませんが 私たちは不安なんです  
 And I'm insecure because I have to think about what I look like every day.    	  なぜ不安なのかと言うと  
 And if you ever are wondering,  "If I have thinner thighs and shinier hair, will I be happier?"    	  毎日 自分の外見を 気にしなくてはいけないからです 「足が細くて 髪がもっと艶々してたら もっと 幸せになれるかしら？」 と思うことがあるならば モデルたちに会ってみることです  
 you just need to meet a group of models,  because they have the thinnest thighs, the shiniest hair and the coolest clothes,  and they're the most physically insecure women probably on the planet.    	  と思うことがあるならば モデルたちに会ってみることです 申し分のない脚や髪 そしてステキな服も着ていますが 彼女たちは おそらく世界で一番 身体的不安を抱えています  
 When I was writing this talk,  I found it very difficult to strike an honest balance,  because on the one hand, I felt very uncomfortable to come out here and say,  "Look I've received all these benefits from a deck stacked in my favor,"  and it also felt really uncomfortable to follow that up with,  "and it doesn't always make me happy."    	  私は この話の原稿を書いているとき どうしたら正確に話の 釣り合いが取れるか悩みました このステージで こんな事を言うのは 気が引けました 「私は運が良かったから こんなに得をした」 その一方 こう付け足すのも 簡単な事ではないのです 「だからと言って いつも幸せなわけではないの」  
 But mostly it was difficult to unpack a legacy of gender and racial oppression  when I am one of the biggest beneficiaries.    	  でも一番難しかったのは 私たちの受け継いできた 性別と人種の抑圧を話す事でした それによって 特に恩恵を受けているのが 私自身だからです  
 But I'm also happy and honored to be up here  and I think that it's great that I got to come  before 10 or 20 or 30 years had passed and I'd had more agency in my career,  because maybe then I wouldn't tell the story of how I got my first job,  or maybe I wouldn't tell the story of how I paid for college,  which seems so important right now.    	  しかし このステージに上がれて 幸せで 誇りにも思います 今日 ここで話せて 良かったと思います 10年後 20年後 30年後 もっとエージェントがついたら たぶん どうやってこの職を得たかとか 学費をどう稼いだかなんて 話さなかったかもしれません 現在 私にとって勉強はとても大切なものです  
 If there's a takeaway to this talk,  I hope it's that we all feel more comfortable acknowledging  the power of image in our perceived successes  and our perceived failures.    	  今日の私の話を聞いて 外見上の成功や失敗の裏には イメージの持つ力の影響があるという事を 考えられるように なって頂ける事を 願っています  
 Thank you.     	  ありがとうございました （拍手）  
 Photography has been my passion  ever since I was old enough to pick up a camera,  but today I want to share with you  the 15 most treasured photos of mine,  and I didn't take any of them.    	  初めてカメラを 手にした時から 写真は 私がずっと 情熱を傾けてきたものです 今日は 私が一番 大切にしている 15枚の写真を お見せしますが いずれも— 私が撮ったもの ではありません  
 There were no art directors, no stylists,  no chance for reshoots, not even any regard for lighting.    	  アート・ディレクターも スタイリストもいなければ 撮り直すチャンスもなく 光の加減すら気にしていない  
 In fact, most of them were taken by random tourists.    	  実のところ ほとんどは 見知らぬ人に 撮ってもらったものなんです  
 My story begins  when I was in New York City for a speaking engagement,  and my wife took this picture of me holding my daughter  on her first birthday. We're on the corner of 57th and 5th.    	  この物語の始まりは ニューヨークへ 講演で行った折りに １歳の誕生日を迎えた娘を 抱える私を 妻が写真に撮った時でした 57丁目と5番街の角のところです  
 We happened to be back in New York exactly a year later,  so we decided to take the same picture.    	  ちょうどその１年後に たまたま ニューヨークに行くことになり また同じ写真を 撮ることにしました  
 Well you can see where this is going.    	  その後どうなったのか 予想が付くでしょう  
 Approaching my daughter's third birthday,  my wife said, "Hey, why don't you take Sabina back to New York  and make it a father-daughter trip, and continue the ritual?"    	  娘の３歳の誕生日が 近づいたとき 妻が言ったんです 「サブリナとまた ニューヨークに行ったらいいんじゃない？ 父娘旅行を恒例にしたら？」  
 This is when we started asking passing tourists to take the picture.    	  この時から 行きずりの人に 写真を頼むようになりました  
 the gesture is of handing your camera to a total stranger.    	  赤の他人にカメラを 渡すジェスチャーは 驚くくらい 誰にでも通じます  
 No one's ever refused, and luckily no one's ever run off with our camera.    	  一度も断られたことはありません 幸い カメラを持って逃げる人もいませんでした  
 Back then, we had no idea how much this trip would change our lives.    	  これが 私たちの人生を変えることになるとは 当時は予想だにしませんでした  
 It's really become sacred to us.    	  私たちにとって 本当に 神聖なものになったのです  
 This one was taken just weeks after 9/11,  and I found myself trying to explain what had happened that day  in ways a five-year-old could understand.    	  これは9.11の何週間か 後に撮ったものです その日 起こった出来事を 私は どうにか ５歳の子にも分かるよう 説明しようとしていました  
 So these photos are far more than proxies  for a single moment, or even a specific trip.    	  これらの写真には ある一瞬や 特定の旅行の記録という以上の 価値があります  
 They're also ways for us to freeze time  for one week in October  and reflect on our times  and how we change from year to year,  and not just physically, but in every way.    	  ある10月の１週間という― 時間を閉じ込め 自分たちが過ごした 時を思い返し 肉体的にも その他の面でも 年々どう変わってきたのか 見直す方法でもあるのです  
 Because while we take the same photo,  our perspectives change,  and she reaches new milestones,  and I get to see life through her eyes,  and how she interacts with and sees everything.    	  同じ写真を 撮っていても 私たちの ものの見方は 変わっていきます 娘は新たな節目を いくつも迎え 私は娘の目を通して ものを見るようになりました 娘が周りと どう関わり どんな見方をするか 分かるようになりました  
 This very focused time we get to spend together  is something we cherish and anticipate the entire year.    	  共に過ごす この特別な時間を 私たちは大切にし 一年中待ち望むように なりました  
 Recently, on one trip, we were walking,  and she stops dead in her tracks,  and she points to a red awning of the doll store  that she loved when she was little  on our earlier trips.    	  最近の旅行でのことですが 通りを歩いていると 娘が凍り付いたように 立ち止まり とある店の赤い日よけを 指さしました 幼い頃 訪れた際に見つけて すごく気に入った 人形の店です  
 And she describes to me the feeling she felt  as a five-year-old standing in that exact spot.    	  ５歳の自分がその場で どんな風に感じたか 話してくれました  
 She said she remembers her heart bursting out of her chest  when she saw that place for the very first time  nine years earlier.    	  ９年前に訪れて 初めてその店を見たとき 心臓が胸から飛び出しそうなくらい ドキドキしたのを はっきり覚えていると  
 And now what she's looking at in New York  are colleges,  because she's determined to go to school in New York.    	  今 娘が この街に見ているのは 大学です ニューヨークの大学に行くと 心に決めているのです  
 And it hit me: One of the most important things  we all make are memories.    	  それで気付かされました 私たちが作る最も大切なものは 思い出なのだと  
 So I want to share the idea of taking an active role  in consciously creating memories.    	  だから私は皆さんにも 積極的に 思い出を作ってほしいと 伝えたいのです  
 I don't know about you, but aside from these 15 shots,  I'm not in many of the family photos.    	  皆さんはどうか分かりませんが 私はこの15枚を別にすると 自分の写真が あまりありません  
 I'm always the one taking the picture.    	  私はいつも撮る側です  
 So I want to encourage everyone today  to get in the shot,  and don't hesitate to go up to someone and ask,  "Will you take our picture?"    	  自分も写真に入ることを お勧めします ためらわずに頼みましょう 「写真を撮ってもらえませんか？」と  
 Thank you.     	  ありがとうございました   
 I would like to talk to you about  a very special group of animals.    	  今日は動物界でも 特に珍しい種属について話します  
 There are 10,000 species of birds in the world.    	  世界中に鳥類は およそ１万種存在します  
 Vultures are amongst the most threatened group of birds.    	  ハゲワシは絶滅が最も 危惧される種属の一つです  
 When you see a vulture like this, the first thing  that comes to your mind is, these are disgusting, ugly,  greedy creatures that are just after your flesh,  associated with politicians.    I want to change that perception. I want to change  those feelings you have for these birds, because  they need our sympathy. They really do.   And I'll tell you why.    	  このようなハゲワシを見れば 屍肉を食らう強欲で 気持ち悪くて醜い 生き物だと思われることでしょう まるで政治家ですね 　 この皆さんの意識を 変えたいのです ハゲワシへの誤った 見方を正したいのです 彼らは本当に同情を 必要としています　 理由を説明します  
 First of all, why do they have such a bad press?    	  まず なぜハゲワシは こんなに不人気なのでしょう？  
 When Charles Darwin went across the Atlantic in 1832  on the Beagle, he saw the turkey vulture,  and he said, "These are disgusting birds  with bald scarlet heads that are formed to revel in putridity."   You could not get a worse insult, and that from Charles Darwin.   You know, he changed his mind when he came back,  and I'll tell you why.    	  1832年 ダーウィンが ビーグル号で大西洋を渡ったとき ヒメコンドルを発見した 彼は言いました 「この鳥が剥げた赤い 頭を持つに至ったのは 腐肉が好きで たまらないからだろう」　 こんなひどい侮辱はありません しかもダーウィンからです　 再びこの地を踏んだダーウィンは この言葉を撤回します その理由を説明します  
 They've also be associated with Disney —  —  personified as goofy, dumb, stupid characters.    	  あのディズニーの中でさえ―  間抜けで 馬鹿な役柄として 描かれています  
 More recently, if you've been following the Kenyan press  —    — these are the attributes that they associated  the Kenyan MPs with. But I want to challenge that.    	  最近 ケニアの新聞には こんな掲載がありました : ケニアの国会議員は ハゲワシだ　　 ハゲワシとケニアの国会議員の 類似点が書かれています  
 I want to challenge that. Do you know why?    	  しかし 私はこれには 納得がいきません なぜだか分かりますか？  
 Because MPs  do not keep the environment clean.   MPs do not help to prevent the spread of diseases.    	  理由は政治家たちは 環境をクリーンには してくれないからです　 政治家は病気の拡散を 防いでもくれません  
 They are hardly monogamous.    They are far from being extinct.   And, my favorite is, vultures are better looking.    So there's two types of vultures in this planet.    	  複数の妻を持つものさえいます 　 また絶滅も危惧されてません  更にですよ ハゲワシの方が見た目も 格好いいんです　　 さてハゲワシは ２種類存在します  
 There are the New World vultures that are mainly found  in the Americas, like the condors and the caracaras,  and then the Old World vultures, where we have  16 species. From these 16, 11 of them are facing  a high risk of extinction.    	  主にアメリカに生息している コンドルやカラカラのような コンドル科と 16種が存在するハゲワシ科です ハゲワシ科16種のうち11種は 絶滅の危険性が高くなっています  
 So why are vultures important? First of all,  they provide vital ecological services. They clean up.    	  さて なぜハゲワシは 重要なのでしょうか？ まず 環境保護ですが 彼らは掃除をしてくれます  
 They're our natural garbage collectors.    	  自然界のゴミ収集人です  
 They clean up carcasses right to the bone.    	  動物の死骸を 骨だけにしてくれます  
 They help to kill all the bacteria. They help absorb anthrax  that would otherwise spread and cause  huge livestock losses and diseases in other animals.    	  バクテリアを殺すだけでなく 他の動物や家畜に 大きな打撃を与える可能性のある 炭疽病の拡散も 抑制してくれています  
 Recent studies have shown that in areas where there are  no vultures, carcasses take up to three to four times  to decompose, and this has huge ramifications  for the spread of diseases.    	  ハゲワシがいないと 死骸が 自然分解されるまでに ３－４倍程の時間がかかるという 調査が最近 発表されました 病気の拡散には 重大な影響を及ぼします  
 Vultures also have tremendous historical significance.    	  ハゲワシは歴史的にも 大きな意味を持っています  
 They have been associated in ancient Egyptian culture.    	  古代エジプト文化と 深い繋がりがあります  
 Nekhbet was the symbol of the protector  and the motherhood, and together with the cobra,  symbolized the unity between Upper and Lower Egypt.    	  ネクベトは守護と出産の 女神でした　コブラと共に 上エジプトと下エジプトの 統一の象徴でもありました  
 In Hindu mythology, Jatayu was the vulture god,  and he risked his life in order to save the goddess Sita  In Tibetan culture, they are performing very important  sky burials. In places like Tibet, there are no places  to bury the dead, or wood to cremate them,  so these vultures provide a natural disposal system.    	  ヒンドゥ教の神話では 10の頭を持つ魔王ラバナから 女神のシータを 命がけで守ったのも ハゲワシの神である ジャターユでした チベットの文化では重要な 鳥葬の役割を担います 土葬をする場所がなく 火葬のための木材もない チベットでは ハゲワシによる死体の 自然処理が行われています  
 So what is the problem with vultures?    	  ハゲワシの問題 とはなんでしょう？  
 We have eight species of vultures that occur in Kenya,  of which six are highly threatened with extinction.    	  ケニアには８種の ハゲワシがいますが そのうち６種が深刻な絶滅の 可能性に晒されています  
 The reason is that they're getting poisoned, and the reason  that they're getting poisoned is because there's  human-wildlife conflicts. The pastoral communities  are using this poison to target predators,  and in return, the vultures are falling victim to this.    	  人間に毒を盛られているからです その原因は人間と 自然との衝突にあります 家畜に頼って生活する人たちは 捕食動物対策に毒を使います 巡り巡ってハゲワシが この被害に遭っているのです  
 In South Asia, in countries like India and Pakistan,  four species of vultures are listed as critically endangered,  which means they have less than 10 or 15 years to go extinct,  and the reason is because they are falling prey  by consuming livestock that has been treated  with a painkilling drug like Diclofenac.    	  インドやパキスタンのような 南アジアの国では ４種のハゲワシが 絶滅危惧種に登録されており 10年から15年で 絶滅すると見られています その原因はジクロフェナクのような 鎮痛剤を与えられた家畜を 食べてしまっているためです  
 This drug has now been banned for veterinary use in India,  and they have taken a stand.    	  インドでは動物への 投与は禁止されましたが このような結果と なってしまいました  
 Because there are no vultures, there's been a spread  in the numbers of feral dogs at carcass dump sites,  and when you have feral dogs, you have a huge time bomb  of rabies. The number of cases of rabies  has increased tremendously in India.    	  ハゲワシが姿を消し 死体には 野生の犬が 群がるようになりました もちろんこれは狂犬病の 拡大に繋がります 実際にインドでは狂犬病の 診断数が急増しています  
 Kenya is going to have one of the largest wind farms in Africa:  353 wind turbines are going to be up at Lake Turkana.    	  ケニアにはアフリカ最大規模の 風力発電所ができます トゥルカナ湖には353もの タービンが立ち並びます  
 I am not against wind energy, but we need to work  with the governments, because wind turbines  do this to birds. They slice them in half.    	  風力発電に反対はしませんが 政府と恊働すべき課題があります タービンはハゲワシを 真っ二つにしてしまう  
 They are bird-blending machines.    	  ハゲワシスライサーなんです  
 In West Africa, there's a horrific trade  of dead vultures to serve the witchcraft and the fetish market.    	  西アフリカではハゲワシの死体が 魔術に使うなどの理由で無残にも フェティッシュ市場で取引されています  
 So what's being done? Well, we're conducting research  on these birds. We're putting transmitters on them.    	  対策はどうなっているの？ 私たちはハゲワシに 発信器を取り付けて 追跡調査を行っています  
 We're trying to determine their basic ecology,  and see where they go.    	  生態を探り どんなところへ 移動するのかを調べています  
 We can see that they travel different countries, so  if you focus on a problem locally, it's not going to help you.    	  ハゲワシは国境を越えるので 局所的な取り組みでは 問題解決にはなりません  
 We need to work with governments in regional levels.    	  各地域の政府との 連携が必要ですし  
 We're working with local communities.    	  地元コミュニティとも 協力をしています  
 We're talking to them about appreciating vultures,  about the need from within to appreciate these  wonderful creatures and the services that they provide.    	  素晴らしいハゲワシの存在や 彼らがもたらす利益などの ハゲワシの存在価値を 伝えています  
 How can you help? You can become active,  make noise. You can write a letter to your government  and tell them that we need to focus on these very  misunderstood creatures. Volunteer your time  to spread the word. Spread the word.    	  皆さんにお願いです 積極的に声を上げてください 政府に手紙を書いて 誤解を受けているハゲワシの 問題を訴えてください このことを伝える時間を作って下さい  
 When you walk out of this room, you will be informed  about vultures, but speak to your families, to your children,  to your neighbors about vultures.    	  会場を後にする皆さんは ハゲワシ救出を支援する 手段を手にしています 周りのみんなに話してください ハゲワシも喜んでくれるでしょう 再びハゲワシを前にして  
 They are very graceful. Charles Darwin said  he changed his mind because he watched them fly  effortlessly without energy in the skies.    	  ダーウィンの心は変わりました 「苦もなく空を 優雅に舞うハゲワシの 姿は優美なものだ」 素晴らしいハゲワシが消えれば  
 Kenya, this world, will be much poorer  Thank you very much.     	  ケニアの貧困は更に悪化します ありがとうございました   
 Everything I do, and everything I do professionally --  my life -- has been shaped  by seven years of work as a young man in Africa.    	  仕事も含めて 私が今していること ― つまり私の人生の 土台になっているのは 若い頃に７年間 アフリカで働いた経験です  
 From 1971 to 1977 --  I look young, but I'm not —  --  I worked in Zambia, Kenya, Ivory Coast, Algeria, Somalia,  in projects of technical cooperation with African countries.    	  1971年から77年にかけて ― 実は 見かけほど若くないんです ― ザンビア ケニア コートジボワール アルジェリア ソマリアといった アフリカ各国で 技術支援の活動をしていました  
 I worked for an Italian NGO,  and every single project that we set up in Africa  failed.    	  私はイタリアのNGOで 活動していましたが アフリカで立ち上げたプロジェクトは ことごとく失敗しました  
 And I was distraught.    	  とても悩みました  
 I thought, age 21, that we Italians were good people  and we were doing good work in Africa.    	  当時21才だった私は 自分達イタリア人は善良だし よくやっていると思っていたのです  
 Instead, everything we touched we killed.    	  ところが やることなすこと 全てがダメでした  
 Our first project, the one that has inspired my first book,  "Ripples from the Zambezi,"  was a project where we Italians  decided to teach Zambian people how to grow food.    	  最初のプロジェクトは 私の初めての著書 ― 『ザンベジ川のさざ波』で 書いたように 私達イタリア人が ザンビアの人々に食糧生産の 技術を指導するプロジェクトでした  
 So we arrived there with Italian seeds in southern Zambia  in this absolutely magnificent valley  going down to the Zambezi River,  and we taught the local people how to grow Italian tomatoes  and zucchini and ...    	  イタリア産のタネを持って ザンビア南部に入りました 壮大な峡谷が ザンベジ川へと下っています 地元の人に教えたのは イタリアン・トマトや ズッキーニの育て方・・・  
 And of course the local people had absolutely no interest  in doing that, so we paid them to come and work,  and sometimes they would show up.   And we were amazed that the local people,  in such a fertile valley, would not have any agriculture.    	  当然 誰も興味をもちません だから来てもらうために お金を渡したら 時々 人が来るようになりました  驚いたことに 彼らは 肥沃な大地があるのに 農業をしません  
 But instead of asking them how come they were not  growing anything, we simply said, "Thank God we're here."   "Just in the nick of time to save the Zambian people from starvation."    	  でも私達は 農業をしない理由も聞かず 「来てよかった」と 素直に喜んだんです  「国民が飢える前に 助けに来られた」と  
 And of course, everything in Africa grew beautifully.    	  アフリカでは 何でも見事に育ちました  
 We had these magnificent tomatoes. In Italy, a tomato  would grow to this size. In Zambia, to this size.    	  大きなトマトも実りました イタリアでは せいぜいこの大きさですが ザンビアではとても大きくなります  
 And we could not believe, and we were telling the Zambians,  "Look how easy agriculture is."    	  信じられなかったけれど ザンビアの人には 「農業なんて簡単でしょう」と 言いました  
 When the tomatoes were nice and ripe and red,  overnight, some 200 hippos came out from the river  and they ate everything.   And we said to the Zambians, "My God, the hippos!"    	  トマトが熟して 真っ赤になった頃に 夜中 200頭の カバが河から現れて 全部 食べてしまいました  「なんてことだ カバが！」と言っていたら  
 And the Zambians said, "Yes, that's why we have no agriculture here."   "Why didn't you tell us?""You never asked."    	  彼らは答えて 「だから 農業はしないのさ」 なぜ教えてくれない と聞くと 「聞かないからさ」という答え  
 I thought it was only us Italians blundering around Africa,  but then I saw what the Americans were doing,  what the English were doing, what the French were doing,  and after seeing what they were doing,  I became quite proud of our project in Zambia.    	  最初 失敗しているのは 私達だけかと思っていました でもアメリカ人や イギリス人やフランス人が やっていることを見てからは 自分達のザンビアでの 活動を自慢したくなりました  
 Because, you see, at least we fed the hippos.    	  だって 少なくとも カバには食料を与えたんですから  
 You should see the rubbish —  --  You should see the rubbish that we have bestowed  on unsuspecting African people.    	  私達がこれまで ― （拍手） 私達がこれまで 純真なアフリカの人々に 与えたガラクタを見てください  
 You want to read the book,  read "Dead Aid," by Dambisa Moyo,  The book was published in 2009.    	  本を読むなら ザンビアの女性エコノミスト ダンビサ・モヨの 『援助じゃアフリカは発展しない』が お勧めです 出版は2009年です  
 We Western donor countries have given the African continent  two trillion American dollars in the last 50 years.    	  西洋諸国は この50年間 アフリカ大陸向けに ２兆ドルもの資金援助をしました  
 I'm not going to tell you the damage that that money has done.    	  この資金が与えた損害は 今はお話しません  
 Just go and read her book.    	  彼女の本を読んでください  
 Read it from an African woman, the damage that we have done.    	  アフリカの女性から 私達が与えた損害を学ぶのです  
 We Western people are imperialist, colonialist missionaries,  and there are only two ways we deal with people:  We either patronize them, or we are paternalistic.    	  西洋人は 帝国主義者で 植民地主義者で 宣教師です そんな我々が知る 人との接し方は２種類です 庇護を与えるか 父親のように振る舞うか です  
 The two words come from the Latin root "pater,"  which means "father."    	  どちらも ラテン語の "pater" 「父」という単語を 含む言葉で表されます  
 But they mean two different things.    	  でも２つの言葉の 意味はかなり違います  
 Paternalistic, I treat anybody from a different culture  as if they were my children. "I love you so much."    	  "paternalistic"が表すのは 異なる文化圏の人々を まるで自分の子のように扱う態度です 子どもを愛する態度です  
 Patronizing, I treat everybody from another culture  as if they were my servants.    	  "patronizing"が表すのは 異なる文化圏の人々を 自分の召使のように扱う態度です  
 That's why the white people in Africa are called "bwana," boss.    	  白人がアフリカでは"bwana" 「ボス」と呼ばれる理由が これです  
 I was given a slap in the face reading a book,  "Small is Beautiful," written by Schumacher, who said,  above all in economic development, if people  do not wish to be helped, leave them alone.    	  私は『スモール イズ ビューティフル』を読んで 平手打ちされたような気がしました 著者のシューマッハーは 経済発展の過程では 人々が支援を必要としないなら 放っておくべきだと言います  
 This should be the first principle of aid.    	  これが支援の第一原則です  
 The first principle of aid is respect.    	  支援の第一原則は「尊重」なのです  
 This morning, the gentleman who opened this conference  lay a stick on the floor, and said,  "Can we -- can you imagine a city  that is not neocolonial?"    	  今朝のスピーチで男性が 私達に 挑むように 言っていたではありませんか 「ネオコロニアル様式 ではない街を 築けないものか」と  
 I decided when I was 27 years old  to only respond to people,  and I invented a system called Enterprise Facilitation,  where you never initiate anything,  you never motivate anybody, but you become a servant  of the local passion, the servant of local people  who have a dream to become a better person.    	  27才の時に 自分から行動せず 要請に応じるだけにしようと心に決めて 「事業促進」という 仕組みを作りました この仕組みでは 自分から行動を起こしません 人に何かをやらせる代わりに 地元の有志や よりよい人間に なりたいと考える ― 人々のための 奉仕者として働きます  
 So what you do -- you shut up.    	  だから大事なのは 黙っていることです  
 You never arrive in a community with any ideas,  and you sit with the local people.    	  アイデアを与えるために 出かけて行くのではなく 地元の人と話をしに行くのです  
 We don't work from offices.    	  オフィスで作業はしません  
 We meet at the cafe. We meet at the pub.    	  カフェやパブで話をします  
 We have zero infrastructure.    	  インフラは持ちません  
 And what we do, we become friends,  and we find out what that person wants to do.    	  人と仲良くなって その人が何をしたいのかを探ります  
 The most important thing is passion.    	  大切なのは情熱です  
 You can give somebody an idea.    	  アイデアを与えるのは簡単ですが  
 If that person doesn't want to do it,  what are you going to do?    	  やりたくないと言われたら どうしようもありません  
 The passion that the person has for her own growth  is the most important thing.    	  成長への情熱が 女性にとって 一番 大事です  
 The passion that that man has for his own personal growth  is the most important thing.    	  成長への情熱は 男性にも 一番 大事です  
 And then we help them to go and find the knowledge,  because nobody in the world can succeed alone.    	  その後 必要な知識を 得る手助けをします 誰しも１人では 成功できないからです  
 The person with the idea may not have the knowledge,  but the knowledge is available.    	  アイデアのある人が 必要な知識を持つわけではなく 知識は手に入れるものです  
 So years and years ago, I had this idea:  Why don't we, for once, instead of arriving in the community  to tell people what to do, why don't, for once,  listen to them? But not in community meetings.    	  だから こう考えるようになりました 「コミュニティーに入って みんなに指示する代わりに みんなの話を聞こう」 でも公の集まりでは だめです  
 Let me tell you a secret.    	  秘訣を教えましょう  
 There is a problem with community meetings.    	  コミュニティーの集会には 欠点があります  
 Entrepreneurs never come,  and they never tell you, in a public meeting,  what they want to do with their own money,  what opportunity they have identified.    	  起業家が来ないのです それに みんなが集まる集会では 自分のお金を使って やろうとしていることや 自分が見つけたチャンスを 教えてくれるわけがない  
 So planning has this blind spot.    	  つまり発想自体に欠陥があります  
 The smartest people in your community you don't even know,  because they don't come to your public meetings.    	  その土地の優れた人材を 見つけられないのです 公の場に現れないのですから  
 What we do, we work one-on-one,  and to work one-on-one, you have to create  a social infrastructure that doesn't exist.    	  そこで１人ずつ あたっていくことにしました １人ひとりと話すには 社会的インフラを 一から作る必要があります  
 You have to create a new profession.    	  新しい職業が必要なのです  
 The profession is the family doctor of enterprise, the family doctor of business, who sits with you  in your house, at your kitchen table, at the cafe,  and helps you find the resources to transform your passion  into a way to make a living.    	  その仕事は 企業やビジネス向けの ファミリー・ドクターのようなもので 自宅のキッチンや カフェで話を聞き 情熱を 生活の糧へと替えるための 経営資源を探す 手伝いをします  
 I started this as a tryout in Esperance, in Western Australia.    	  西オーストラリア州 エスぺランスで試しました  
 I was a doing a Ph.D. at the time,  trying to go away from this patronizing bullshit  that we arrive and tell you what to do.    	  その頃 私は博士号に取り組みながら 地元の人を守るために 指示してやろうという態度を 捨てようとしていました  
 And so what I did in Esperance that first year  was to just walk the streets, and in three days I had my first client, and I helped this first guy  who was smoking fish from a garage, was a Maori guy,  and I helped him to sell to the restaurant in Perth,  to get organized, and then the fishermen came to me to say,  "You the guy who helped Maori? Can you help us?"    	  エスぺランスでの１年目は 街を歩き回りました ３日目に最初の依頼がありました その人はガレージで 魚の燻製を作っている マオリの男性でした パースのレストランへの販売と 組織作りを手伝いました すると今度は漁師が来て言うのです 「マオリを手伝った人かい？ 俺達も助けてくれないか」  
 And I helped these five fishermen to work together  and get this beautiful tuna not to the cannery in Albany  for 60 cents a kilo, but we found a way  to take the fish for sushi to Japan for 15 dollars a kilo,  and the farmers came to talk to me, said,  "Hey, you helped them. Can you help us?"    	  だから 私は５人の漁師と協力して 見事なマグロを １キロ わずか60セントで アルバニーの缶詰工場に 売るのではなく １キロ15ドルで 寿司ネタ用に 日本に売る方法を見つけました すると今度は農家が 助けを求めてやってくるのです  
 In a year, I had 27 projects going on,  and the government came to see me to say,  "How can you do that?    	  １年で27件のプロジェクトを 立ち上げました すると政府の役人が来ました ノウハウを教えてほしいというのです  
 How can you do — ?" And I said, "I do something very, very, very difficult.    	  だから 私は答えました 「とても難しいことですが  
 I shut up, and listen to them."   So —  —  So the government says, "Do it again."   We've done it in 300 communities around the world.    	  黙って話を聞くんです」  （拍手） そうしたら役人は またやれと言うんです  私達は世界中 300か所で実践し  
 We have helped to start 40,000 businesses.    	  ４万件の起業支援をしてきました  
 There is a new generation of entrepreneurs  who are dying of solitude.    	  新世代の起業家たちは 孤立が原因で 挫折していきます  
 Peter Drucker, one of the greatest management consultants in history,  died age 96, a few years ago.    	  史上最高の経営コンサルタントの １人 ピーター・ドラッカーが 96才で亡くなったのは数年前です  
 Peter Drucker was a professor of philosophy  before becoming involved in business,  and this is what Peter Drucker says:  "Planning is actually incompatible  with an entrepreneurial society and economy."    	  彼はビジネスに関わる以前は 哲学の教授でした 彼はビジネスに関わる以前は 哲学の教授でした ドラッカーはこう言っています 「計画というものは 起業社会や起業経済とは 相容れない」  
 Planning is the kiss of death of entrepreneurship.    	  計画は 起業家にとって 致命的です  
 So now you're rebuilding Christchurch  without knowing what the smartest people in Christchurch  want to do with their own money and their own energy.    	  クライストチャーチは 現在 復興中ですが 才能あふれる人たちが 自分の金と精力を注いで やろうとしていることが わかっていません  
 You have to learn how to get these people  to come and talk to you.    	  そういう人達がやって来て 自分から話しだす方法を 学ぶ必要があります  
 You have to offer them confidentiality, privacy,  you have to be fantastic at helping them,  and then they will come, and they will come in droves.    	  秘密とプライバシーを守ると約束し 手助けの名人に ならなければいけません そうすれば みんな列をなしてやって来ます  
 In a community of 10,000 people, we get 200 clients.    	  人口１万人なら依頼者は200人です  
 Can you imagine a community of 400,000 people,  the intelligence and the passion?    	  人口40万人のクライストチャーチなら 相当の知性と情熱を 秘めているはず  
 Which presentation have you applauded the most this morning?    	  午前のプレゼンでは どこで一番 拍手をしましたか？  
 Local, passionate people. That's who you have applauded.    	  地元の情熱的な人のプレゼンですね  
 So what I'm saying is that  entrepreneurship is where it's at.    	  今はまさしく 起業家の時代なのです  
 We are at the end of the first industrial revolution --  nonrenewable fossil fuels, manufacturing --  and all of a sudden, we have systems which are not sustainable.    	  今 産業革命の 第一波が終わろうとしています 再生不能な化石燃料や製造により システムは持続不能になっています  
 The internal combustion engine is not sustainable.    	  内燃エンジンは続けられないし  
 Freon way of maintaining things is not sustainable.    	  フロンの使用も続けられません  
 What we have to look at is at how we  feed, cure, educate, transport, communicate  for seven billion people in a sustainable way.    	  考えなければならないことは 食料 医療 教育 交通 コミュニケーション手段を 持続可能な形で 地球上の70億人にどう与えるかです  
 The technologies do not exist to do that.    	  これを実現するテクノロジーは まだ存在しません  
 Who is going to invent the technology  for the green revolution? Universities? Forget about it!    	  では 誰が「グリーン革命」に向けた 技術を開発するのでしょう？ 大学？　あてになりません  
 Government? Forget about it!    	  政府？　それも無理でしょう  
 It will be entrepreneurs, and they're doing it now.    	  答えは起業家です しかも 彼らはもう始めています  
 There's a lovely story that I read in a futurist magazine  There was a group of experts who were invited  to discuss the future of the city of New York in 1860.    	  以前 未来がテーマの雑誌で 面白い記事を読みました 1860年に ニューヨークの  
 And in 1860, this group of people came together,  and they all speculated about what would happen  to the city of New York in 100 years,  and the conclusion was unanimous:  The city of New York would not exist in 100 years.    	  未来について議論するため 専門家が招集されました 大勢で集まって 100年後のニューヨークが どうなるかを予測したのです 全員一致の結論は 100年後ニューヨークは 存在しないというものでした  
 Why? Because they looked at the curve and said,  if the population keeps growing at this rate,  to move the population of New York around,  they would have needed six million horses,  and the manure created by six million horses  would be impossible to deal with.    	  彼らはグラフを見て こう結論づけたのです もし今の割合で人口が増加したら 住人が市内を移動するために 600万頭の馬が必要になるだろう ただ600万頭分のフンは 処理しきれないだろう  
 They were already drowning in manure.   So 1860, they are seeing this dirty technology  that is going to choke the life out of New York.    	  街は すでに馬の フンだらけだったのです  1860年に専門家が注目したのは 移動のための汚れた技術でした ニューヨークは そのせいで窒息寸前だったのです  
 So what happens? In 40 years' time, in the year 1900,  in the United States of America, there were 1,001  car manufacturing companies -- 1,001.    	  その後どうなったか？ 40年後の1900年には アメリカに 1,001か所の 自動車製造会社が出来ていました 1,001か所です  
 The idea of finding a different technology  had absolutely taken over,  and there were tiny, tiny little factories in backwaters.    	  別の移動の技術を 探るというアイデアが すっかり優勢になっていました だから辺鄙な場所に 小さな工場がたくさんあったのです  
 Dearborn, Michigan. Henry Ford.    	  例えばミシガン州ディアボーンには ヘンリー・フォードがいました  
 However, there is a secret to work with entrepreneurs.    	  さて 起業家と仕事をするには 秘訣があります  
 First, you have to offer them confidentiality.    	  まず秘密を守ることを 約束する必要があります  
 Otherwise they don't come and talk to you.    	  そうしないと話しに来てくれません  
 Then you have to offer them absolute, dedicated,  passionate service to them.    	  次に100%の献身と情熱を 約束しなければなりません  
 And then you have to tell them the truth about entrepreneurship.    	  さらに起業の実態を 教える必要があります  
 The smallest company, the biggest company,  has to be capable of doing three things beautifully:  The product that you want to sell has to be fantastic,  you have to have fantastic marketing,  and you have to have tremendous financial management.    	  小さな会社も大きい会社も 次の３つを 完璧にできなければなりません 素晴らしい商品を作れること 素晴らしい営業ができること 優れた財務管理ができること  
 We have never met a single human being  in the world who can make it, sell it and look after the money.    	  ただ そうは言っても 製造と販売とお金の管理を  
 It doesn't exist.    	  同時にこなせる人など 見たことがありません  
 This person has never been born.    	  そんな人はいないのです  
 We've done the research, and we have looked  at the 100 iconic companies of the world --  Carnegie, Westinghouse, Edison, Ford,  all the new companies, Google, Yahoo.    	  この世にはいません 私達は世界100の大企業 ― カーネギーやウェスティングハウス エジソンやフォード ― GoogleやYahooといった 新興企業も含めて  
 There's only one thing that all the successful companies  in the world have in common, only one:  None were started by one person.    	  調査をしました 世界の成功した企業に 共通する点は たった ひとつでした  
 in Northumberland, and we start the class  by giving them the first two pages of Richard Branson's autobiography,  and the task of the 16-year-olds is to underline,  in the first two pages of Richard Branson's autobiography  how many times Richard uses the word "I"  and how many times he uses the word "we."    	  どの企業も 一人では始めていなかったのです ノーサンバーランドの高校生に 向けた起業の授業では １時間目に リチャード・ブランソンの 自伝の最初２ページを渡しています 生徒は その２ページを読んで ブランソンが 「私」と書いているのが何回で 「私たち」と書いているのが何回かを  
 Never the word "I," and the word "we" 32 times.    	  下線をひいて調べます 「私」はゼロで 「私たち」が32回です  
 He wasn't alone when he started.    	  ブランソンは独りで 起業したわけではないのです  
 Nobody started a company alone. No one.    	  会社を一人で 立ち上げる人はいません  
 So we can create the community  where we have facilitators who come from a small business background  sitting in cafes, in bars, and your dedicated buddies  who will do to you, what somebody did for this gentleman  who talks about this epic,  somebody who will say to you, "What do you need?    	  だからコミュニティーを作るのです 小規模ビジネスの 経験をもつ世話役が カフェやバーで待っていて 仲間が手を貸してくれます 自伝の著者 ブランソンのために 仲間がしたのと 同じように 声をかけてくれます 「必要なものは？  
 What can you do? Can you make it?    	  できることは？これを作れる？  
 Okay, can you sell it? Can you look after the money?"    	  じゃあ 販売は？ 財務管理は？」と訊ね  
 "Oh, no, I cannot do this.""Would you like me to find you somebody?"    	  できないと言えば「誰か 紹介しようか」と言ってくれます  
 We activate communities.    	  私達はコミュニティーを活性化します  
 We have groups of volunteers supporting the Enterprise Facilitator  to help you to find resources and people  and we have discovered that the miracle  of the intelligence of local people is such  that you can change the culture and the economy  of this community just by capturing the passion,  the energy and imagination of your own people.    	  多くのボランティアが支える 「事業促進」は 経営資源や人材を 探す手伝いをします 私達が知ったことは 地元の人の知性が奇跡を起こし そのコミュニティーの 文化と経済が変わることです 身近な人の情熱と エネルギーと想像力を きちんと捉えれば可能になるのです  
 Thank you.     	  どうもありがとう （拍手）  
 There are a lot of ways the people around us  can help improve our lives.    	  まわりの人は様々な形で 人生を豊かなものに してくれるものですが  
 We don't bump into every neighbor,  so a lot of wisdom never gets passed on, though we do share the same public spaces.    	  でも同じ場所に 住んでいても みんなに 行き会えるわけではなく 多くの知恵が 受け渡されずに 過ぎてしまいます  
 So over the past few years, I've tried ways to share more  with my neighbors in public space,  using simple tools like stickers, stencils and chalk.    	  だからこの何年か ラベルやステンシルやチョークのような シンプルな道具を使い 公共の場で近所の人と もっと多くのことを共有 できないものかと試みてきました  
 And these projects came from questions I had, like:  How much are my neighbors paying for their apartments?   How can we lend and borrow more things,  without knocking on each other's doors at a bad time?    	  それはみんな 私の素朴な疑問に 端を発していました たとえば 近所の人のアパートの家賃は いくらなんだろう とか  間の悪い時にドアを ノックすることなく ものを貸し借りのできる 方法はないか とか  
 How can we share more memories of our abandoned buildings,  and gain a better understanding of our landscape?    	  うち捨てられた建物について みんなで思い出を共有し 身の回りの風景をもっと理解できる ようにする方法はないか とか  
 How can we share more of our hopes for our vacant storefronts,  so our communities can reflect our needs and dreams today?    	  空き家になった店の 使い道について みんなで望みを共有し 自分たちの必要や夢をコミュニティに 反映させることはできないか とか  
 Now, I live in New Orleans,  and I am in love with New Orleans.    	  私はニューオーリンズに 住んでいて この町がとても好きです  
 My soul is always soothed by the giant live oak trees,  shading lovers, drunks and dreamers for hundreds of years,  and I trust a city that always makes way for music.    	  恋人たちや酔っ払いや夢見る人たちに 何百年も安らぎの場を与えてきた あの大きな樫の木には いつもほっとした気持ちになります 絶えず音楽をやる 機会を与えてくれる  
 I feel like every time someone sneezes,  New Orleans has a parade.    	  この町を 私は 信じています 誰かがくしゃみをするたびに ニューオーリンズでパレードを  
   The city has some of the most beautiful architecture in the world,  but it also has one of the highest amounts of abandoned properties in America.    	  やっているんじゃないかと 思います  この町にはとても 美しい建物がありますが 空き家の数もアメリカで 最も多いんです 空き家の数もアメリカで 最も多いんです  
 I live near this house,  and I thought about how I could make it a nicer space for my neighborhood,  and I also thought about something that changed my life forever.    	  この家は 私の家の 近くにあるんですが これを使って 近所を もっと素敵な 空間にできないかと思い また自分の人生を何か永遠に 変えるようなものはないかと 考えていました  
 In 2009, I lost someone I loved very much.    	  2009年に 私は大切な人を なくしました  
 Her name was Joan, and she was a mother to me.    	  ジョーンという名の 私にとって母のような人で  
 And her death was sudden and unexpected.    	  それは予期しない 突然の死でした  
 And I thought about death a lot.    	  それから死について よく考えるようになって  
 And ... this made me feel deep gratitude for the time I've had.    	  自分に与えられた時間を ありがたく感じ  
 And ... brought clarity to the things that are meaningful to my life now.    	  自分に与えられた時間を ありがたく感じ 自分の人生にとって  
 But I struggle to maintain this perspective in my daily life.    	  はっきり見える ようになりました でも日常生活の中で その視点を 維持するのを難しく感じてもいました  
 I feel like it's easy to get caught up in the day-to-day,  and forget what really matters to you.    	  日々の些事に追われて 大切なものを 見失いがちだったんです  
 So with help from old and new friends,  I turned the side of this abandoned house into a giant chalkboard,  and stenciled it with a fill-in-the-blank sentence:  "Before I die, I want to ..."    	  それで 古い友達や 新しい友達の助けを借りて この見捨てられた家の壁を 大きな伝言板に変え こんな穴埋め式の問で満たしたんです 「死ぬ前に私は＿＿したい」  
 So anyone walking by can pick up a piece of chalk,  reflect on their life,  and share their personal aspirations in public space.    	  通りがかった人が チョークを手にとって 自分の人生を振り返り 個人的な望みを公共の場で 共有できるようにしたわけです  
 I didn't know what to expect from this experiment,  but by the next day, the wall was entirely filled out,  and it kept growing.    	  それがどんな結果になるのかは 予想もできませんでしたが 翌日には壁がすっかり 埋まっていて さらに広がり続けていたのです  
 And I'd like to share a few things that people wrote on this wall.    	  人々がどんなことを 書いていたのか いくつかご紹介しましょう  
 "Before I die, I want to be tried for piracy."   "Before I die, I want to straddle the International Dateline."    	  「死ぬ前に 海賊として裁かれたい」 「死ぬ前に 日付変更線をまたぎたい」  
 "Before I die, I want to sing for millions."    	  「死ぬ前に 何百万人を前に歌いたい」  
 "Before I die, I want to plant a tree."    	  「死ぬ前に 木を植えたい」  
 "Before I die, I want to live off the grid."    	  「死ぬ前に 自給自足生活をしてみたい」  
 "Before I die, I want to hold her one more time."    	  「死ぬ前に 彼女をもう一度抱きしめたい」  
 "Before I die, I want to be someone's cavalry."    	  「死ぬ前に 誰かの騎兵隊になりたい」  
 "Before I die, I want to be completely myself."    	  「死ぬ前に 本当の自分になりたい」  
 So this neglected space became a constructive one,  and people's hopes and dreams made me laugh out loud, tear up,  and they consoled me during my own tough times.    	  この見捨てられた場所が 意味を持つようになったんです みんなの夢や希望を見て すごく笑い 涙を流し 辛い時にも慰められました  
 It's about knowing you're not alone;  it's about understanding our neighbors in new and enlightening ways;  it's about making space for reflection and contemplation,  and remembering what really matters most to us as we grow and change.    	  自分は一人ではないんだと 分かります 近所に住む人たちを 新たな 開かれた目で 見られるようになります 振り返って深く考えることを促し 成長し変わっていく中で 何が本当に大事なのか 思い出せる場所を作るんです  
 I made this last year,  and started receiving hundreds of messages from passionate people  who wanted to make a wall with their community.    	  これを作ったのは去年ですが 自分のコミュニティにも この壁を作りたいという 熱心な人たちから 何百というメッセージを 受け取りました  
 So, my civic center colleagues and I made a tool kit,  and now walls have been made in countries around the world,  including Kazakhstan, South Africa,  Australia,  Argentina, and beyond.    	  市民センターの同僚と一緒に このツールキットを用意し 今ではこの壁が世界中に 作られています カザフスタン 南アフリカ オーストラリア アルゼンチン その他  
 Together, we've shown how powerful our public spaces can be  if we're given the opportunity to have a voice,  and share more with one another.    	  もし人々が伝えたいことを表現し 互いに共有できる方法を 用意したなら 公共の場がいかに強い力を 持ちうるものか示せました  
 Two of the most valuable things we have  are time, and our relationships with other people.    	  私たちの持つ一番 大切なものは 時間と 他の人との関わりです  
 In our age of increasing distractions,  it's more important than ever to find ways to maintain perspective,  and remember that life is brief and tender.    	  気をそらされる要素の 多いこの時代にあって 全体を見失うことなく 人生はもろく短いことを 忘れずにいるのは すごく大事だと思います  
 Death is something that we're often discouraged to talk about,  or even think about,  but I've realized that preparing for death  is one of the most empowering things you can do.    	  死というのは 話すのはもちろん 考えることすら 避けがちなものですが 死に備えることは これ以上なく力を 与えてくれるものだと 気付きました  
 Thinking about death clarifies your life.    	  死について考えることは 自分の人生をはっきり見せてくれます  
 Our shared spaces can better reflect what matters to us,  as individuals and as a community,  and with more ways to share our hopes, fears and stories,  the people around us can not only help us make better places,  they can help us lead better lives.    	  私たちが共有する場所は 個人として またコミュニティとして 私たちにとって何が大切なのかを もっと良く反映できるはずです そして希望や恐れや 体験を共有することで より良い場所を作り さらには より良い人生を歩めるよう 助け合うことができるでしょう  
 Thank you.    	  どうもありがとうございました   
   Thank you.    	   ありがとうございます   
 Today I have just one request.    	  今日はお願いが一つだけあります  
 Please don't tell me I'm normal.    	  私が普通だなんて言わないでください  
 Now I'd like to introduce you to my brothers.    	  さあ 皆さんに私の弟たちを紹介します  
 Remi is 22,  tall and very handsome.    	  22歳のレミは 背が高くて すごいハンサムです  
 He's speechless, but he communicates joy  in a way that some of the best orators cannot.    	  口数は少ないですが 演説家ができない方法で 彼は喜びを分かち合います  
 Remi knows what love is.    	  レミは 愛が何かを知っていて  
 He shares it unconditionally and he shares it regardless.    	  偏見なく 無条件に共有するのです  
 He's not greedy. He doesn't see skin color.    	  彼は強欲でもなく 肌の色も気にしません  
 He doesn't care about religious differences, and get this:  He has never told a lie.    	  宗教的な違いも受け入れます 何より彼は・・ 一度も嘘をついたことがないのです  
 When he sings songs from our childhood,  attempting words that not even I could remember,  he reminds me of one thing:  how little we know about the mind, and how wonderful  the unknown must be.    	  幼いころから 彼は歌を歌うとき 私ですら覚えられない歌詞に挑戦します そして私はあることに気付かされます 私たちが心について いかに無知か また 未知のことがどれだけ素晴らしかとね  
 Samuel is 16. He's tall. He's very handsome.    	  16歳のサミュエルは 背が高くてハンサムです  
 He has the most impeccable memory.    	  彼は申し分ない記憶力を備えています  
 He has a selective one, though.    	  えり好みをしますけどね  
 He doesn't remember if he stole my chocolate bar,  but he remembers the year of release for every song on my iPod,  conversations we had when he was four,  weeing on my arm on the first ever episode of Teletubbies,  and Lady Gaga's birthday.    	  彼は 私のチョコ棒を盗んだことは忘れていますが 私のiPod内にある全ての曲の リリースされた年や 彼が４歳のときにした私との会話 『テラタビーズ』第一話を見て 私の腕にお漏らししたこと そしてレディ・ガガの誕生日を 彼は覚えています  
 Don't they sound incredible?    	  すばらしいと思いませんか  
 But most people don't agree.    	  大半の人は賛成してくれません  
 And in fact, because their minds don't fit  into society's version of normal,  they're often bypassed and misunderstood.    	  実際 弟たちの心は 社会の「普通」に合わないため 彼らはよく避けられ 誤解されます  
 But what lifted my heart and strengthened my soul  was that even though this was the case,  although they were not seen as ordinary,  this could only mean one thing:  that they were extraordinary --  autistic and extraordinary.    	  しかし 私の心を持ち上げ 魂を鍛えてくれたことも事実です 弟たちが普通でないと見られるのは まぎれもない事実ですが これが意味するのはただ一つ 弟たちが非凡だということ 彼らは自閉的で 非凡なのです  
 Now, for you who may be less familiar with the term "autism,"  it's a complex brain disorder that affects social communication,  learning and sometimes physical skills.    	  さて 「自閉症」に馴染みのない方に 説明させていただきます 自閉症は 複雑な脳の障害であり 社会的コミュニケーションや 学習能力 さらには運動能力にも 影響を及ぼすことがあります  
 It manifests in each individual differently,  hence why Remi is so different from Sam.    	  自閉症には 個人差があり だから レミはサムと似つかないのです  
 And across the world, every 20 minutes, one new person  is diagnosed with autism, and although it's one of  the fastest-growing developmental disorders in the world,  there is no known cause or cure.    	  そして世界中で 20分毎に 自閉症と診断される人が 一人増えます これは世界で最も成長速度が速い 発達障害の一つですが 原因も治療法も 明らかになっていません  
 And I cannot remember the first moment I encountered autism,  but I cannot recall a day without it.    	  自閉症に直面した瞬間は 覚えていませんが 私は 自閉症と関わらない日を 思い出すことができません  
 I was just three years old when my brother came along,  I had a new being in my life.    	  私が３歳のとき 弟が生まれました 新しい命が 私の人生に加わるので  
 And after a few months went by,  I realized that he was different.    	  私はとても興奮していました 数か月が経つと 私は 弟が普通でないと気づきました  
 He screamed a lot.    	  彼はいっぱい叫んでいたのです  
 He didn't want to play like the other babies did,  and in fact, he didn't seem  very interested in me whatsoever.    	  一般的な赤ちゃんがする遊びを 嫌がりました そして 彼は私に 少しも興味がないようでした  
 Remi lived and reigned in his own world, with his own rules,  and he found pleasure in the smallest things,  like lining up cars around the room  and staring at the washing machine  and eating anything that came in between.    	  レミは独自の規範と共に 独自の世界に君臨していました 彼は些細なことに喜びを見出しました 部屋の周りに車を並べることや 洗濯機をじっと見ること そして 甘くなく 辛くないものを食べることなどです  
 And as he grew older, he grew more different,  and the differences became more obvious.    	  成長するにつれ 彼はもっと変わっていきました 違いは さらに顕著になったのです  
 Yet beyond the tantrums and the frustration  and the never-ending hyperactivity  was something really unique:  a pure and innocent nature, a boy who saw the world  without prejudice, a human who had never lied.    	  しかし 怒りや葛藤 そして 多動性の向こう側にあったのは とてもユニークなものでした 純粋で無垢な気質をもち 世界を偏見無しに見る男の子 嘘をついたことのない人間だったのです  
 Extraordinary.    	  非凡なのです  
 Now, I cannot deny that there have been  some challenging moments in my family,  moments where I've wished that they were just like me.    	  もちろん 家庭内で 困難もいくつかありました 弟たちが 私みたいだったらと 祈ったこともありました  
 But I cast my mind back to the things that they've taught me  about individuality and communication and love,  and I realize that these are things that  I wouldn't want to change with normality.    	  しかし私は 彼らが教えてくれたことを 思い出しました 個性やコミュニケーション そして愛です そして気づきました 「普通」という言葉をもって これらを変えてしまいたくないとね  
 Normality overlooks the beauty that differences give us,  and the fact that we are different doesn't mean that one of us is wrong.    	  普通であるということは 違いがもたらす美しさを見落としています 違うからといって 私たちの誰かが 間違いなわけではありません  
 It just means that there's a different kind of right.    	  異なる種類の道理があるだけなのです  
 And if I could communicate just one thing to Remi  and to Sam  and to you,  it would be that you don't have to be normal.    	  できるなら私はここで レミに サムに そして・・ 皆さんに伝えたいです 決して普通である必要はありません  
 You can be extraordinary.    	  非凡でいればいいのです  
 Because autistic or not,  the differences that we have --  We've got a gift! Everyone's got a gift inside of us,  and in all honesty, the pursuit of normality  is the ultimate sacrifice of potential.    	  自閉的であれ 何であれ 私たちがもつ違いというのは 贈り物なのです！ みんなそれを内に秘めています 正直なところ 「普通」を追求することは 可能性を潰す 究極の犠牲となります  
 The chance for greatness, for progress and for change  dies the moment we try to be like someone else.    	  成長や変革や素晴らしさ をもたらす機会は 私たちが他人みたいになろうとした瞬間 消えてしまいます  
 Please -- don't tell me I'm normal.    	  だからお願いです 私が普通だなんて言わないでください  
 Thank you.       	  ありがとうございました   
 Five years ago, I experienced a bit  of what it must have been like to be Alice in Wonderland.    	  ５年前 私は 『不思議の国のアリス』のアリスに なったような体験をしました  
 Penn State asked me, a communications teacher,  to teach a communications class for engineering students.    	  ペンシルバニア州立大学から 工学部の学生相手に コミュニケーションの 授業をするよう頼まれたんですけど  
 And I was scared.   Really scared. Scared of these students with their big brains  and their big books and their big, unfamiliar words.    	  恐怖を感じたものです 工学部の学生は頭が良くて 分厚い本を抱え 分からない言葉を使うものだと思って 怖かったんです  
 But as these conversations unfolded,  I experienced what Alice must have when she went down  that rabbit hole and saw that door to a whole new world.    	  でも 彼らと会話をするにつれ 私は アリスがウサギ穴に落ちて 新世界への扉を見たときに感じた であろう体験をしました  
 That's just how I felt as I had those conversations  with the students. I was amazed at the ideas  that they had, and I wanted others to experience this wonderland as well.    	  不思議の国というのが まさに 私が学生と話して 感じたことです 彼らのアイデアには驚かされました　そして他の人にも この不思議の国を体験してほしいと思いました  
 And I believe the key to opening that door  is great communication.    	  その扉を開ける鍵こそが 素晴らしい コミュニケーションであると 私は信じています  
 We desperately need great communication from our  scientists and engineers in order to change the world.    	  世界を変えるために 私たちは 科学者やエンジニアと 意思疎通を 図る必要があります  
 Our scientists and engineers are the ones  that are tackling our grandest challenges, from energy  to environment to health care, among others,  and if we don't know about it and understand it,  then the work isn't done, and I believe it's our responsibility as non-scientists to have these interactions.    	  私たちの抱える最も難しい問題に 立ち向かってくれるのは 彼らなのです エネルギー問題　環境問題 ヘルス・ケアなど 私たちがそれらの問題を 理解しなければ 問題解決には至らないでしょうし 門外漢の私たちにも 問題を理解する 責任があると思います  
 But these great conversations can't occur if our scientists  and engineers don't invite us in to see their wonderland.    	  こういった意思疎通を図るためには 彼らに 不思議の国へと 招待してもらう必要があります  
 So scientists and engineers, please, talk nerdy to us. I want to share a few keys on how you can do that  to make sure that we can see that your science is sexy  and that your engineering is engaging.    	  科学者とエンジニアの皆さん どうか私たちに熱く科学を語ってください 科学の素晴らしさや工学の魅力を 私たち 門外漢にも分からせるための  
 First question to answer for us: so what?    	  重要なポイントを紹介します まずは「それがどうした？」 という疑問に答えることです  
 Tell us why your science is relevant to us.    	  その科学が私たちにどう関わるのか 説明するのです  
 Don't just tell me that you study trabeculae,  but tell me that you study trabeculae, which is the mesh-like structure of our bones  because it's important to understanding and treating osteoporosis.    	  単に「骨梁を研究しています」 ではなく こう言うのです 「骨にある網目状の構造の 骨梁を研究していますが これは骨粗しょう症の理解と 治療のために重要なんです」  
 And when you're describing your science, beware of jargon.    	  そして科学について語るときは 専門用語に注意してください  
 Jargon is a barrier to our understanding of your ideas.    	  専門用語は アイデア理解の障壁となります  
 Sure, you can say "spatial and temporal," but why not just say  "space and time," which is so much more accessible to us?    	  時空なんたらという用語がありますけど もっと分かりやすく 「時間と空間」と言えませんか？  
 And making your ideas accessible is not the same as dumbing it down.    	  ただ 話を分かりやすくしても 不正確な内容にはしないことです  
 Instead, as Einstein said, make everything  as simple as possible, but no simpler.    	  アインシュタインが言ったようにするんです 可能な限り簡潔に でもそれ以上 簡潔にしようとはしないこと 誤魔化しを入れずに  
 You can clearly communicate your science without compromising the ideas.    	  科学を明確に語ることだって可能なのです  
 A few things to consider are having examples, stories  and analogies. Those are ways to engage  and excite us about your content.    	  良い方法は 説明に 例やストーリーや 比喩を交えることです そうすることで 専門的な話が 私たちにとっても 魅力的になります  
 And when presenting your work, drop the bullet points.    	  研究を紹介するのに 箇条書き はやめましょう  
 Have you ever wondered why they're called bullet points?   What do bullets do? Bullets kill,  and they will kill your presentation.    	  なんで bullet point  と 呼ばれているか分かりますか？ 銃弾が何をするものか考えてください そう プレゼンテーションを 殺してしまうのです  
 A slide like this is not only boring, but it relies too much  on the language area of our brain, and causes us to become overwhelmed.    	  こういったスライドは退屈なだけでなく 脳の言語野に大きな負担をかけ 見る人を圧倒します  
 Instead, this example slide by Genevieve Brown is  much more effective. It's showing that the special structure  of trabeculae are so strong that they actually inspired  the unique design of the Eiffel Tower.    	  一方 ジュヌビエーブ・ブラウンが 作ったこのスライドは ずっと効果的です 骨梁が特殊で頑丈な構造を持つ ことを示していて エッフェル塔の独特な設計にも 応用されたことが分かります  
 And the trick here is to use a single, readable sentence  that the audience can key into if they get a bit lost,  and then provide visuals which appeal to our other senses  and create a deeper sense of understanding  of what's being described.    	  コツは 文を１つに絞ることです 聴衆が筋を見失っても 立ち戻れるように そして視覚的イメージを貼ることで 言語野ではない部分を刺激し 説明されていることに対する理解を いっそう深めることができます  
 So I think these are just a few keys that can help  the rest of us to open that door and see the wonderland  that is science and engineering.    	  この何点かに注意するだけで 門外漢を不思議の国へと誘う上で ずっと違ってくるんです  
 And because the engineers that I've worked with have  taught me to become really in touch with my inner nerd,  I want to summarize with an equation.   Take your science, subtract your bullet points and your jargon, divide by relevance,  meaning share what's relevant to the audience,  and multiply it by the passion that you have for  this incredible work that you're doing,  and that is going to equal incredible interactions    	  さて 受講している工学部の学生たちに 内に秘めたオタク心をくすぐられたので 今回の内容を方程式に書いて まとめたいと思います  「科学」から 「箇条書き」と 「専門用語」を差し引き 聴き手にどう関わるかを意味する 「関連性」で割り 研究に注いでいる「情熱」を 掛け合わせると 高い「理解度」を伴う  
 that are full of understanding.    	  素晴らしい意思疎通が得られます  
 And so, scientists and engineers, when you've solved  this equation, by all means, talk nerdy to me.   Thank you.     	  科学者やエンジニアの皆さん この方程式を解いて ぜひとも 私に熱く科学を語ってください    
 the Oxford English Dictionary is "snollygoster."    	  オックスフォード英語辞典で  
 Just because it sounds so good.    	  お気入りの単語は “snollygoster” です  
 And what snollygoster means is  "a dishonest politician."    	  響きがいいからです “snollygoster” の意味は  
 Although there was a 19th-century  newspaper editor who defined it rather better when he said,  "A snollygoster is a fellow who seeks office  regardless of party, platform or principle,  and who, when he wins,  gets there by the sheer force  of monumental talknophical assumnancy."    	  “ずる賢い政治家” です 19世紀の新聞編集者の定義はもっと素敵でした 19世紀の新聞編集者の定義はもっと素敵でした “snollygoster は政党 綱領 主義に かかわらず公職を目指す人で 大いなる卓越した戯言力によって当選する人のこと” 大いなる卓越した戯言力によって当選する人のこと” 大いなる卓越した戯言力によって当選する人のこと”  
   Now I have no idea what "talknophical" is.    	   “戯言力”って何のことか分かりませんが  
 Something to do with words, I assume.    	  言葉と関係あるのでしょう  
 But it's very important that words are at the center of politics,  and all politicians know they have to try and control language.    	  大事なのは言葉は政治の中核をなし 政治家は言葉を制御しようとする必要を覚えています  
 It wasn't until, for example, 1771 that the British Parliament allowed newspapers to report  the exact words that were said in the debating chamber.    	  例えば イギリス議会が 議事堂で交わされた実際の文言を報道するのを  
 And this was actually all down to the bravery  of a guy with the extraordinary name of Brass Crosby,  who took on Parliament.    	  許可したのは1771年になってからです これが実現したのは ブラス・クロスビー  という変わった名前を持つ 勇気ある国会議員のおかげです  
 And he was thrown into the Tower of London  and imprisoned,  but he was brave enough,  he was brave enough to take them on,  and in the end he had such popular support in London that he won.    	  クロスビーは犯罪者としてロンドン塔に収監されますが クロスビーは犯罪者としてロンドン塔に収監されますが 勇気を持ち続け 勇気を持ち続けて闘争し 最終的にロンドン市民の支持を得て勝利しました  
 And it was only a few years later  that we have the first recorded use of the phrase  "as bold as brass." Most people think that's down to the metal.    	  それからわずか数年後に “as bold as brass”（堂々とした) という表現が初めて使われたのです “as bold as brass”（堂々とした) という表現が初めて使われたのです  
 It's not. It's down to a campaigner  for the freedom of the press.    	  多くの人は真鍮から来ていると思っていますが 実は報道の自由のために  
 But to really show you how  words and politics interact,  I want to take you back to the United States of America,  just after they'd achieved independence.    	  奮闘した人の名前なのです さて言葉と政治がどう結びつくか 本当にお見せするには 独立直後のアメリカ合衆国に さかのぼる必要があります  
 And they had to face the question  of what to call George Washington, their leader.    	  当時直面した問題は 彼らの指導者ジョージ・ワシントンを 何と呼ぶかでした  
 They didn't know.    	  称号がなかったのです  
 What do you call the leader of a republican country?    	  共和国の指導者は何と呼ぶべきでしょう?  
 And this was debated in Congress for ages and ages.    	  これが議会で長年に渡り議論されたのです  
 And there were all sorts of suggestions on the table,  which might have made it.    	  ありとあらゆる提案が出され議論されました ありとあらゆる提案が出され議論されました  
 I mean, some people wanted him to be called  Chief Magistrate Washington,  and other people, His Highness George Washington,  and other people, Protector of the Liberties of the People of the United States of America Washington.    	  例えば ある人たちが提言したのは ワシントン主席執政官 また別の人は ジョージ・ワシントン殿下 さらに別の人は ワシントン アメリカ合衆国国民自由の擁護者  
 Not that catchy.    	  覚えにくいですね  
 Some people just wanted to call him King.    	  王と呼ぼうと言う人々もいました  
 They thought it was tried and tested.    	  実証試験済だし  
 And they weren't even being monarchical there,  they had the idea that you could be elected King  for a fixed term.    	  王政ではなくても期間限定なら王を選出して 王政ではなくても期間限定なら王を選出して 構わないと考えました  
 And, you know, it could have worked.    	  いい考えだったかも  
 And everybody got insanely bored, actually,  because this debate went on for three weeks.    	  この議論は３週間にわたり 実に 議員たちはへき易しました  
 I read a diary of this poor senator,  who just keeps coming back, "Still on this subject."    	  ある上院議員の日記には 繰返し “依然 同じ議題” とあります  
 And the reason for the delay and the boredom was that  the House of Representatives were against the Senate.    	  審議が停滞して皆が飽きた理由は 下院が上院に反発したからです  
 The House of Representatives didn't want Washington  to get drunk on power.    	  下院はワシントンが権力に酔うことを恐れました 下院はワシントンが権力に酔うことを恐れました  
 They didn't want to call him King  in case that gave him ideas, or his successor ideas. So they wanted to give him the humblest, meagerest,  most pathetic title that they could think of.    	  王と呼ぶと ワシントンや後任が誤解するのを心配したのです そこで下院は最も謙虚で粗末で哀れな名前を  
 And that title was "President."    	  付けたいと思いました それが “大統領” です  
 President. They didn't invent the title. I mean, it existed before,  but it just meant somebody who presides over a meeting.    	  “大統領” は以前からあった称号です 誰か小会議を取りまとめる人を指しました  
 It was like the foreman of the jury.    	  陪審長みたいなものです “主任” あるいは “監視人” と同じ重みです  
 than the term "foreman" or "overseer."    	  “主任” あるいは “監視人” と同じ重みです  
 There were occasional presidents of little colonial councils  and bits of government, but it was really a nothing title.    	  それまでにも小さな植民地協議会や 政府の一部で使われた何もない称号でした  
 And that's why the Senate objected to it.    	  それが上院が反対した理由です  
 They said, that's ridiculous, you can't call him President.    	  彼らは言いました “なんて馬鹿げている 大統領なんてありえない  
 This guy has to go and sign treaties and meet foreign dignitaries.    	  条約を結んだり外国の要人と会う人間が  
 And who's going to take him seriously  if he's got a silly little title  like President of the United States of America?    	  “合衆国大統領” だなんて そんなつまらない肩書きで 誰が真剣に取り合ってくれるんだ?”  
 And after three weeks of debate, in the end  the Senate did not cave in.    	  ３週間の議論を経ても 上院は譲歩しませんでした  
 Instead, they agreed to use the title "President" for now,  but they also wanted it absolutely set down  that they didn't agree with it  from a decent respect for the opinions and practice of civilized nations,  whether under republican or monarchical forms of government,  whose custom it is to annex,  through the office of the Chief Magistrate, titles of respectability --  not bloody President -- and that in the intercourse with foreign nations,    	  代わりに “大統領” の称号を当面使うことに合意しました それでも完全に同意してはいないと 明記するよう求めました 上院は 政府の形態が共和制か王政か関係なく 文明国家の民意と執政への敬意 そして 国の代表にふさわしい 主席執政官執務室や大統領以外の呼称 さらに 主席執政官執務室や大統領以外の呼称 さらに  
 the majesty of the people of the United States  may not be hazarded by an appearance of singularity,  i.e., we don't want to look like bloody weirdos.    	  諸外国と交流する際に合衆国の人々が 物珍しい奇妙な集団と見下されないためには 物珍しい奇妙な集団と見下されないためには 譲れないと主張しました  
 Now you can learn three interesting things from this.    	  この事例から３つの興味深い教訓を学べます  
 First of all -- and this is my favorite --  is that so far as I've ever been able to find out,  the Senate has never formally endorsed the title of President.    	  一つ目は私のお気に入りです 私が研究して分かったのは 上院は未だに正式に大統領の称号を承認していません  
 Barack Obama, President Obama, is there on borrowed time,  just waiting for the Senate to spring into action.    	  バラク・オバマ “大統領” は期間限定です 上院が行動を起こすのを待っているのです  
 Second thing you can learn is that  when a government says that this is a temporary measure --   --  you can still be waiting 223 years later.    	  ２つ目は 政府が時限立法と言う場合･･･  223年続く可能性があるということです  
 But the third thing you can learn,  and this is the really important one,  this is the point I want to leave you on,  is that the title, President of the United States of America,  doesn't sound that humble at all these days, does it?    	  そして３つ目は とても重要な点です 皆さんにぜひお伝えしたいことは “アメリカ合衆国大統領” という称号は この頃そんなに謙虚に聞こえないでしょう?  
 Something to do with the slightly over 5,000  nuclear warheads he has at his disposal  and the largest economy in the world  and a fleet of drones and all that sort of stuff.    	  それは ５千発以上の核弾頭の発射権限を持ち それは ５千発以上の核弾頭の発射権限を持ち 世界一の経済圏や 無人航空機の群れを動かす権限を有するからでしょう  
 Reality and history have endowed that title with grandeur.    	  現実と歴史が称号に威厳を加えたのです  
 And so the Senate won in the end.    	  結局 上院が勝ったのです  
 They got their title of respectability.    	  上院は威厳ある称号を手にしました  
 And also, the Senate's other worry, the appearance of singularity --  well, it was a singularity back then.    	  それから上院が心配していた物珍しさについて 当時は物珍しかったでしょう  
 But now, do you know how many nations have a president?    	  しかし今 大統領がいる国はいくつあるでしょう?  
 A hundred and forty-seven.    	  147 です  
 All because they want to sound like  the guy who's got the 5,000 nuclear warheads, etc.    	  その理由は皆が ５千発の核弾頭を持つ指導者みたいに思われたいからです  
 And so, in the end, the Senate won  and the House of Representatives lost,  because nobody's going to feel that humble  the President of the United States of America.    	  結局 上院が勝ったのです そして下院が負けたのです というのも誰も アメリカ合衆国大統領と呼ばれて 謙虚な気持ちにならないからです  
 And that's the important lesson I think you can take away,  and the one I want to leave you with.    	  皆さんにお伝えしたい教訓は次のとおりです 皆さんにお伝えしたい教訓は次のとおりです  
 Politicians try to pick words and use words to shape reality  and control reality, but in fact,  reality changes words far more  than words can ever change reality.    	  政治家は言葉を選んで使い 言葉で現実を形作り支配しようとします しかし実際には 言葉が現実を変えるより はるかに現実が言葉を変えるのです  
 Thank you very much.    	  ありがとうございました  
 I'm 150 feet down an illegal mine shaft in Ghana.    	  ここはガーナの違法鉱山の地下50mです  
 The air is thick with heat and dust,  and it's hard to breathe.    	  空気は熱気と埃で重苦しく 息をするのさえ困難です  
 I can feel the brush of sweaty bodies passing me  in the darkness, but I can't see much else.    	  暗闇の中を汗だくの男達が すり抜けていくのを感じる以外 何も見えません  
 I hear voices talking, but mostly the shaft  is this cacophony of men coughing,  and stone being broken with primitive tools.    	  話し声が聞こえますが あとは男たちが咳き込む 不快な音と 粗野な道具で石を切り出す音だけが 縦穴の中に満ちています  
 Like the others, I wear a flickering, cheap flashlight  tied to my head with this elastic, tattered band,  and I can barely make out the slick tree limbs  holding up the walls of the three-foot square hole  dropping hundreds of feet into the earth.    	  他の人と同じように 私は ちゃちな懐中電灯を ぼろぼろなゴム紐で頭に縛りつけています 何十メートルもの深さの 幅約１ｍの四角い穴の壁面には 昇り降り用に滑りやすい木材が設置されていますが それさえも はっきりは見えません  
 When my hand slips, I suddenly remember a miner  I had met days before who had lost his grip  and fell countless feet down that shaft.    	  手が滑った瞬間 頭をよぎったのは 数日前に 手を滑らせて 止めどもなく落下していった 鉱夫の姿でした  
 As I stand talking to you today,  these men are still deep in that hole,  risking their lives without payment or compensation,  and often dying.    	  今 皆さんにお話している間も 男達は その穴の奥深くへと潜り 報酬も補償もないまま 自らを危険に晒しています 命を落とすことも珍しくありません  
 I got to climb out of that hole, and I got to go home,  but they likely never will, because they're trapped in slavery.    	  私は穴から這い上がり 家に帰れました しかし彼らは一生帰れません 彼らは奴隷の身なのです  
 For the last 28 years, I've been documenting  indigenous cultures in more than 70 countries  on six continents, and in 2009 I had the great honor  of being the sole exhibitor at the Vancouver Peace Summit.    	  28年間に渡り 私は６大陸の 70カ国以上で先住民文化を記録してきました そして 2009年にはバンクーバー平和サミットで 単独の展示を行う名誉を与えられました  
 Amongst all the astonishing people I met there,  I met a supporter of Free the Slaves, an NGO  dedicated to eradicating modern day slavery.    	  そこでお会いした多くのすばらしい人々の中に 現代の奴隷撲滅に献身的に取り組む NGO フリー・ザ・スレーブ の支援者がいました  
 We started talking about slavery, and really,  I started learning about slavery,  for I had certainly known it existed in the world,  but not to such a degree.    	  私達は奴隷問題について話を始めました それから奴隷問題を学び始めました 世界にこの問題があることは知っていましたが そこまで深くは知りませんでした  
 After we finished talking, I felt so horrible  and honestly ashamed at my own lack of knowledge  of this atrocity in my own lifetime, and I thought,  if I don't know, how many other people don't know?    	  話を終えて私は自己嫌悪に陥りました 自分が生きている時代に 起きている残虐行為について 無知な自分を恥ずかしく思いました そして 自分が知らないのなら 他にも 知らない人は大勢いるはずだと思いました  
 It started burning a hole in my stomach, so within weeks,  I flew down to Los Angeles to meet with the director  of Free the Slaves and offer them my help.    	  胃に穴があくほど思いは強まり 数週間後には 私はロサンゼルスに飛び フリー・ザ・スレーブの役員に手伝いを申し出ました  
 Thus began my journey into modern day slavery.    	  そうして 私は現代の奴隷の旅を始めたのです  
 Oddly, I had been to many of these places before.    	  奇妙なことに行き先は前にも訪れた場所です  
 Some I even considered like my second home.    	  幾つかは第二の故郷と思っていた場所です  
 But this time, I would see the skeletons hidden in the closet.    	  しかし今回は隠された事実に 直面することになりました  
 A conservative estimate tells us there are more than  27 million people enslaved in the world today.    	  控え目な推定でも 現在世界では ２千７百万人以上の人々が奴隷として扱われています  
 That's double the amount of people taken from Africa  during the entire trans-Atlantic slave trade.    	  この数字は大西洋横断奴隷貿易時代に アフリカから移送された人の倍です  
 A hundred and fifty years ago, an agricultural slave  cost about three times the annual salary  of an American worker.    	  150年前 農場に送り込まれた 奴隷の値段はアメリカ人労働者の 年収の３年分でした  
 That equates to about $50,000 in today's money.    	  現在の貨幣価値ならば約５万ドルです ところが今日では わずか18ドル程度の借金のせいで  
 Yet today, entire families can be enslaved for generations  over a debt as small as $18. Astonishingly, slavery generates profits  of more than $13 billion worldwide each year.    	  一家族が何世代にも渡って奴隷になってしまうのです 驚くべきことに奴隷制度は世界全体で 年間130億ドル以上の利益を生み出しています  
 Many have been tricked by false promises  of a good education, a better job, only to find  that they're forced to work without pay  under the threat of violence, and they cannot walk away.    	  奴隷の多くは良い教育や仕事等の 嘘の約束にだまされた人々で 報酬もなく暴力に怯えながら 逃げ出せない状況で労働を強いられています  
 Today's slavery is about commerce,  so the goods that enslaved people produce have value,  but the people producing them are disposable.    	  今日の奴隷を駆り立てるのは商業です 奴隷扱いされる人々が作る商品には価値がありますが 商品を作る人々は使い捨てです  
 Slavery exists everywhere, nearly, in the world,  and yet it is illegal everywhere in the world.    	  奴隷制度は世界中どこでも違法ですが 奴隷は世界中至る所に存在します  
 In India and Nepal, I was introduced to the brick kilns.    	  インドとネパールでレンガを焼く窯を訪れました  
 This strange and awesome sight was like  walking into ancient Egypt or Dante's Inferno.    	  その奇妙で恐ろしい景色はあたかも 古代エジプトかダンテの地獄篇に 足を踏み入れたようでした  
 Enveloped in temperatures of 130 degrees,  men, women, children, entire families in fact,  were cloaked in a heavy blanket of dust,  while mechanically stacking bricks on their head,  up to 18 at a time, and carrying them  from the scorching kilns to trucks hundreds of yards away.    	  気温50℃を超す現場では 男 女 子供を含めた家族全員が 埃まみれになりながら 頭の上に機械的にレンガを載せていました 多い時には18個も載せて 焼け付く窯から 数百メートル離れたトラックまで運ぶのです  
 Deadened by monotony and exhaustion,  they work silently, doing this task over and over  for 16 or 17 hours a day.    	  単調さと疲労のため 彼らは物言わず黙々と一日16～17時間 この作業を繰返すのです  
 There were no breaks for food, no water breaks,  and the severe dehydration made urinating  pretty much inconsequential.    	  食事や飲み水の休憩すらありません 皆 重度の脱水症状を起こし 放尿すらままなりません  
 So pervasive was the heat and the dust  that my camera became too hot to even touch  and ceased working.    	  あまりの暑さと埃のため 私のカメラは触れない程熱くなり 動かなくなりました  
 Every 20 minutes, I'd have to run back to our cruiser  to clean out my gear and run it under an air conditioner  to revive it, and as I sat there,  I thought, my camera is getting far better treatment  than these people.    	  私は20分おきに車に駆け戻っては自分の 機材の埃を掃い エアコンにあてて甦らせました そうしている間に自分のカメラの方が あの人々よりも余程ましな扱いを受けていることに 気づきました  
 Back in the kilns, I wanted to cry,  but the abolitionist next to me quickly grabbed me  and he said, "Lisa, don't do that. Just don't do that here."    	  窯に戻ると泣出したい気持ちでした すると隣の廃止活動家が 私をつかんで言いました “泣かないで ここで泣いちゃだめだ” 彼が明言したのはこの様な場所で  
 And he very clearly explained to me that emotional displays  are very dangerous in a place like this,  I couldn't offer them any direct help.    	  感情を表現すると私のみならず彼らにも 大変危険だということでした 私が直接 彼らを助けることはできません  
 I couldn't give them money, nothing.    	  お金を与えることも 何もできません  
 I wasn't a citizen of that country.    	  私はその国の人間ではありません  
 I could get them in a worse situation  than they were already in.    	  私が 彼らを今よりさらにひどい状況に 追い込んでしまう可能性がありました  
 I'd have to rely on Free the Slaves to work  within the system for their liberation,  and I trusted that they would.    	  フリー・ザ・スレーブがその活動を通して 彼らを解放してくれるのを信じました 彼らならばきっとやってくれると思いました  
 As for me, I'd have to wait until I got home  to really feel my heartbreak.    	  私は家に帰るまで 自分の気持ちが張り裂けるのを我慢しました  
 In the Himalayas, I found children carrying stone for miles down mountainous terrain  to trucks waiting at roads below.    	  ヒマラヤでは子供たちが石を背負って ふもとの道で待っているトラックまで 山岳地帯を何キロも運ぶのを見ました  
 The big sheets of slate were heavier  than the children carrying them,  and the kids hoisted them from their heads  using these handmade harnesses of sticks and rope  and torn cloth.    	  大きな石板の重さは 担いでいる子供たち以上でした 棒とロープと布で作った 手作りのハーネスで 石を頭から 吊り下げていました  
 It's difficult to witness something so overwhelming.    	  これほどの衝撃的な現場を 目撃するのは辛いことです  
 How can we affect something so insidious,  yet so pervasive? Some don't even know they're enslaved,  people working 16, 17 hours a day without any pay,  because this has been the case all their lives.    	  ここまで横行する悪行に　 どうやって立ち向かえるでしょうか? ここまで横行する悪行に　 どうやって立ち向かえるでしょうか? 報酬もなく一日 16～17時間も働かされているのに 中には自分が奴隷だと知らない人さえいます 生まれた時から同じ状況だからです  
 They have nothing to compare it to.    	  他と比べようがないのです  
 When these villagers claimed their freedom,  the slaveholders burned down all of their houses.    	  このような村人が自由を主張したら 奴隷所有者は彼らの家を焼き払ってしまいました  
 I mean, these people had nothing,  and they were so petrified, they wanted to give up,  but the woman in the center rallied for them to persevere,  and abolitionists on the ground  helped them get a quarry lease of their own,  so that now they do the same back-breaking work,  but they do it for themselves, and they get paid for it,  and they do it in freedom.    	  彼らには何もなかったのです 彼らは恐れるあまり あきらめていました しかし中央の女性は自分たちの ために立ち上がり耐え抜きました そして現地の廃止活動家の 支援を受け採掘権を獲得しました そして現地の廃止活動家の 支援を受け採掘権を獲得しました 今でも同じ過酷な仕事ですが 自分たちのために働き 報酬を得ることができるのです そして何より自由の身です  
 Sex trafficking is what we often think of  when we hear the word slavery,  and because of this worldwide awareness,  I was warned that it would be difficult for me to work safely  within this particular industry.    	  奴隷という言葉を聞けば 性の不正売買を連想するほど 世界中に知れ渡っています この業界を取材する際には 身の安全を保証できないと 忠告されました  
 In Kathmandu, I was escorted by women who had  previously been sex slaves themselves.    	  カトマンズでは以前に性の奴隷を 経験した女性たちに付き添ってもらいました  
 They ushered me down a narrow set of stairs  that led to this dirty, dimly fluorescent lit basement.    	  案内された 狭い階段は 薄暗い蛍光灯が照らす汚い地階に続いていました  
 This wasn't a brothel, per se.    	  いわゆる売春宿ではなく  
 It was more like a restaurant.    	  どちらかと言えばレストランです  
 Cabin restaurants, as they're known in the trade,  are venues for forced prostitution.    	  業界ではキャビン・レストランと呼ばれる 強制売春の温床です  
 Each has small, private rooms, where the slaves,  women, along with young girls and boys,  some as young as seven years old,  are forced to entertain the clients,  encouraging them to buy more food and alcohol.    	  それぞれに小さな個室があり 奴隷の身の女性は ― 少女や少年や7歳の子さえいるのですが ― ― 少女や少年や7歳の子さえいるのですが ― 客に料理や酒をたくさん注文させながら 客の相手をしなければなりません  
 Each cubicle is dark and dingy,  identified with a painted number on the wall,  and partitioned by plywood and a curtain.    	  部屋は薄暗く汚れています 壁に識別用の番号があり ベニヤ板とカーテンで仕切られています  
 The workers here often endure tragic sexual abuse  at the hands of their customers.    	  客の手による 悲劇的な性的暴行に 耐えなければならないこともあります  
 Standing in the near darkness, I remember feeling  this quick, hot fear, and in that instant,  I could only imagine what it must be like  to be trapped in that hell.    	  ほぼ暗闇の中に立っていると 瞬時に激しい恐怖が湧き上がりました あの地獄に囚われた身を 想像するだけで身の毛がよだちます  
 I had only one way out: the stairs from where I'd come in.    	  出口は一か所しかありません 入ってきた階段です  
 There were no back doors.    	  裏口はありません  
 There were no windows large enough to climb through.    	  抜け出せるほど大きな窓もありませんでした  
 These people have no escape at all,  and as we take in such a difficult subject,  it's important to note that slavery, including sex trafficking,  occurs in our own backyard as well.    	  この人たちに逃げ道は全くないのです この厳しい状況に触れると同時に 性の不正売買を含めた奴隷取引が 私たちの裏庭でも行われていることを お伝えしなければなりません  
 Tens of hundreds of people are enslaved in agriculture,  in restaurants, in domestic servitude,  and the list can go on.    	  何万人もの人々が農園 レストラン 家事等の 何万人もの人々が農園 レストラン 家事等の 様々な労働を強制されています  
 Recently, the New York Times reported that  between 100,000 and 300,000 American children  are sold into sex slavery every year.    	  最近のニューヨークタイムズ紙の報道によると 毎年10～30万人のアメリカ人の子供が 性の奴隷として売買されています  
 It's all around us. We just don't see it.    	  我々の身近にあるのです ただ目にしないだけです  
 The textile industry is another one we often think of  when we hear about slave labor.    	  繊維業もまた強制労働で連想する業種です 繊維業もまた強制労働で連想する業種です  
 I visited villages in India where entire families were enslaved  in the silk trade.    	  インドの村では家族全員が絹取引で 奴隷扱いされている様子を見ました  
 This is a family portrait.    	  これは家族の写真です  
 The dyed black hands are the father, while the blue  and red hands are his sons.    	  黒く染まった手が父親で 青と赤の手が息子たちです  
 They mix dye in these big barrels,  and they submerge the silk into the liquid up to their elbows,  but the dye is toxic.    	  彼らは大きな樽で染料をかき混ぜ 絹を液体の中に肘の深さまで沈めます ですが染料は有毒です  
 My interpreter told me their stories.    	  通訳が彼らの物語を伝えてくれました  
 "We have no freedom," they said.    	  “僕らに自由はない” と彼らは言いました  
 "We hope still, though, that we could leave this house  someday and go someplace else  where we actually get paid for our dyeing."    	  “でも いつかは ここを出て 染物をして稼げる場所に行きたいんだ” と 染物をして稼げる場所に行きたいんだ” と  
 It's estimated that more than 4,000 children  are enslaved on Lake Volta,  When we first arrived, I went to have a quick look.    	  ４千人を超える子供たちが 世界最大の人造湖 ヴォルタ湖で奴隷になっていると言われています 初めて訪れた際に 私は様子を見に行きました  
 I saw what seemed to be a family fishing on a boat,  two older brothers, some younger kids, makes sense right?    	  船から魚を取っているのは家族だと思いました ２人のお兄さんと弟たちに見えませんか？  
 Wrong. They were all enslaved.    	  いいえ 彼らはみんな奴隷でした  
 Children are taken from their families  and trafficked and vanished,  and they're forced to work endless hours on these boats  on the lake, even though they do not know how to swim.    	  子供たちは家族から取り上げられ 売買されて姿を消すのです そして このような船での 長時間労働を強いられます しかも彼らは泳げません  
 This young child is eight years old.    	  この子は８歳です  
 He was trembling when our boat approached,  frightened it would run over his tiny canoe.    	  私達のボートが近づくと震えていました 彼の小さなカヌーに衝突すると思ったのです  
 He was petrified he would be knocked in the water.    	  水中に突き落とされることを怖がっていたのです  
 The skeletal tree limbs submerged in Lake Volta  often catch the fishing nets, and weary,  frightened children are thrown into the water  to untether the lines.    	  ヴォルタ湖に水没した木々によく漁網が絡みます ヴォルタ湖に水没した木々によく漁網が絡みます すると網を外すために怖がっている子供たちを 水の中に放り込みます  
 Many of them drown.    	  多くが溺れます  
 For as long as he can recall, he's been forced to work  on the lake.    	  この青年は物心ついたときから 強制労働を強いられています この青年は物心ついたときから 強制労働を強いられています  
 Terrified of his master, he will not run away,  and since he's been treated with cruelty all his life,  he passes that down to the younger slaves  that he manages.    	  主人が恐ろしくて逃げ出せません 彼はこれまでずっと 残忍な扱いを受けてきたので 仕切っている年下の奴隷たちを 同じように扱います 仕切っている年下の奴隷たちを 同じように扱います  
 I met these boys at five in the morning,  when they were hauling in the last of their nets,  but they had been working since 1 a.m.    	  彼らに出会ったのは朝５時です 最後の漁網を引き揚げている所でした 冷たい風が吹く夜中の１時から働きづめでした  
 in the cold, windy night.    	  冷たい風が吹く夜中の１時から働きづめでした  
 And it's important to note that these nets weigh  more than a thousand pounds when they're full of fish.    	  しかも 大漁だと漁網は 500キロ以上の重さになります  
 I want to introduce you to Kofi.    	  コフィを紹介します  
 Kofi was rescued from a fishing village.    	  コフィは漁村から救出されました  
 I met him at a shelter where Free the Slaves  rehabilitates victims of slavery.    	  彼に出会ったのはフリー・ザ・スレーブの 奴隷被害者リハビリ施設でした  
 Here he's seen taking a bath at the well,  pouring big buckets of water over his head,  and the wonderful news is,  as you and I are sitting here talking today,  Kofi has been reunited with his family,  and what's even better, his family has been given tools  to make a living and to keep their children safe.    	  井戸で入浴している所です 大きなバケツで頭から水を浴びていました すばらしいことに こうしてお話ししている今まさに コフィは家族と共にいます さらに良いことに彼の家族には 生活の糧となり 子供たちの安全を守る 道具が支給されました  
 Kofi is the embodiment of possibility.    	  コフィは可能性の象徴です  
 Who will he become because someone took a stand  and made a difference in his life?    	  立ち上がった人物がいたおかげで 彼の人生は変わりました  
 Driving down a road in Ghana  with partners of Free the Slaves,  a fellow abolitionist on a moped suddenly sped up  to our cruiser and tapped on the window.    	  ガーナの道をフリー・ザ・スレーブの スタッフと一緒に車で走っていた時 ガーナの道をフリー・ザ・スレーブの スタッフと一緒に車で走っていた時 突然バイクに乗った廃止活動家が 我々の車に近づき窓を叩き 指示しました  
 He told us to follow him down a dirt road into the jungle.    	  ジャングルに続く泥道を先導するから付いてこいと  
 At the end of the road, he urged us out of the car,  and told the driver to quickly leave.    	  道の行き止まりで我々をクルマから降ろすと 彼は運転手に立ち去るよう言いました  
 Then he pointed toward this barely visible footpath,  and said, "This is the path, this is the path. Go."    	  それから 彼は道なき道を指さして言いました “この道だ この道を行け” と  
 As we started down the path, we pushed aside the vines  blocking the way, and after about an hour of walking in,  found that the trail had become flooded by recent rains,  so I hoisted the photo gear above my head  as we descended into these waters up to my chest.    	  道を遮る植物をかき分けて約１時間進むと 道を遮る植物をかき分けて約１時間進むと 小道は最近の雨で完全に水に浸かっていました そこで私は写真用機材を頭の上に持ち上げ 胸まで水に浸かりながら進みました そこで私は写真用機材を頭の上に持ち上げ 胸まで水に浸かりながら進みました  
 After another two hours of hiking, the winding trail  abruptly ended at a clearing, and before us  was a mass of holes  that could fit into the size of a football field,  and all of them were full of enslaved people laboring.    	  更に歩くこと２時間 曲がりくねった小道は突然終わり 目の前に サッカー場ほどの 穴だらけの採掘場が広がりました 穴の中では 大勢の奴隷が働いていました  
 Many women had children strapped to their backs  while they were panning for gold,  wading in water poisoned by mercury.    	  女性の多くは子供を背中に背負ったまま 金を選鉱していました 足が浸かっている水は水銀で汚染されています  
 Mercury is used in the extraction process.    	  採取工程で水銀が使われるのです  
 These miners are enslaved in a mine shaft  in another part of Ghana.    	  こちらの鉱夫たちはガーナの 別の地域の鉱山で働く奴隷です  
 When they came out of the shaft, they were soaking wet  from their own sweat.    	  縦穴から出てくる時 彼らは汗でびっしょりです  
 I remember looking into their tired, bloodshot eyes,  for many of them had been underground for 72 hours.    	  彼らの疲れ果てて充血した眼を思い出します 彼らの多くは72時間も地下に潜ったままでした  
 The shafts are up to 300 feet deep, and they carry out  heavy bags of stone that later will be transported  to another area, where the stone will be pounded  so that they can extract the gold.    	  縦穴の深さは90mあります 彼らは重い石が入った袋を 外に運び出します 次にその石は 別の場所に運ばれて砕かれ 金が採取されます  
 At first glance, the pounding site seems full  of powerful men, but when we look closer,  we see some less fortunate working on the fringes,  and children too.    	  一見 力持ちの男達が大勢いるように見えますが すぐに崖っぷちな状態に置かれた 不幸な人々であることに気づきます そして子供もいます  
 All of them are victim to injury, illness and violence.    	  彼らは怪我 病気 そして暴力の被害者です  
 In fact, it's very likely that this muscular person  will end up like this one here, racked with tuberculosis  and mercury poisoning in just a few years.    	  実際このとても筋肉質な人ですら あと数年で結核と水銀中毒のせいで こうなってしまう危険が高いのです  
 This is Manuru. When his father died,  his uncle trafficked him to work with him in the mines.    	  彼はマヌルといいます 父親が死んだ時に 叔父が彼を 自分が働く鉱山に売りました  
 When his uncle died, Manuru inherited his uncle's debt,  which further forced him into being enslaved in the mines.    	  叔父が死ぬと 叔父の借金を背負わされました そして彼は 鉱山の奴隷労働から 逃れられなくなりました  
 When I met him, he had been working in the mines  for 14 years, and the leg injury that you see here  is actually from a mining accident,  one so severe doctors say his leg should be amputated.    	  この時 彼は14年も鉱山で働いていました 足の怪我は採掘中の事故のせいです 足の怪我は採掘中の事故のせいです かなりの重傷で 医師は 切断すべきだと言いました  
 On top of that, Manuru has tuberculosis,  yet he's still forced to work day in and day out  in that mine shaft.    	  しかもマヌルは結核にかかっています それでも彼は連日 縦穴での作業を 強いられています  
 Even still, he has a dream that he will become free  and become educated with the help of local activists  like Free the Slaves,  and it's this sort of determination,  in the face of unimaginable odds,  that fills me with complete awe.    	  それでも彼は いつの日か フリー・ザ・スレーブ等の活動家の援助を得て 自由の身になり教育を受けることを夢見ています 自由の身になり教育を受けることを夢見ています 絶望的な状況に置かれながらも 希望を捨てない人々を見ると 私の胸は 畏敬の念にあふれます  
 I want to shine a light on slavery.    	  奴隷問題に光を当てたいと思います  
 When I was working in the field,  I brought lots of candles with me,  and with the help of my interpreter,  I imparted to the people I was photographing  that I wanted to illuminate their stories  and their plight,  so when it was safe for them, and safe for me,  I made these images.    	  現地で作業する際に ろうそくをたくさん持っていきました 通訳に助けてもらいながら 撮影した人たちに分け与え 彼らの物語と窮状に光を当てたいと思いました 彼らの物語と窮状に光を当てたいと思いました 彼らと私の安全が確認できた時に 撮影した写真です  
 They knew their image would be seen  by you out in the world.    	  彼らは自分たちの写真が世界中の 人々に見られるのを知っています 彼らは自分たちの写真が世界中の 人々に見られるのを知っています  
 I wanted them to know that we will be bearing witness  to them, and that we will do whatever we can  to help make a difference in their lives.    	  私は彼らに伝えようと思いました 私達が彼らの目撃者となり 彼らの人生を 変えるためにできる限りの手を尽くすと  
 I truly believe, if we can see one another  as fellow human beings, then it becomes very difficult  to tolerate atrocities like slavery.    	  私は本当に信じているのです 私たちがお互いを同じ人間として 見ることができれば 奴隷のような残虐行為はなくなると  
 These images are not of issues. They are of people,  real people, like you and me, all deserving  of the same rights, dignity and respect  in their lives.    	  写真に映っているのは社会問題ではなく 私たちと同じ生きている人間です 権利 尊厳 そして尊敬に値する人々です 権利 尊厳 そして尊敬に値する人々です  
 There is not a day that goes by that I don't think  of these many beautiful, mistreated people  I've had the tremendous honor of meeting.    	  私が光栄にも出会うことができた 虐げられた大勢の素晴らしい人々のことを 一日たりとも忘れることはありません  
 I hope that these images awaken a force  in those who view them, people like you,  and I hope that force will ignite a fire,  and that fire will shine a light on slavery,  for without that light, the beast of bondage  can continue to live in the shadows.    	  これらの写真が あなた方のような 見る人々の力を呼び起こし その力が結集して火となり その燃え盛る火が奴隷問題に 光を当てることを願います その光がなければ束縛という野獣は 闇の中で生き続けます その光がなければ束縛という野獣は 闇の中で生き続けます  
 Thank you very much.    	  たいへんありがとうございました  
 So, well, I do applied math,  and this is a peculiar problem  for anyone who does applied math, is that  we are like management consultants.    	  私は応用数学をやっています 応用数学をやっている人間には 特有の問題がありまして 経営コンサルタントのように  
 No one knows what the hell we do.    	  一体何をやっているのかわからないのです  
 So I am going to give you some -- attempt today  to try and explain to you what I do.    	  そこで本日は皆さんに 私の仕事を知っていただきたいと思います  
 So, dancing is one of the most human of activities.    	  さて ダンスは最も人間味のある活動の一つです  
 We delight at ballet virtuosos and tap dancers  you will see later on.    	  美しいバレエやタップダンスを見ると 心が躍りますよね 美しいバレエやタップダンスを見ると 心が躍りますよね  
 Now, ballet requires an extraordinary level of expertise  and a high level of skill,  and probably a level of initial suitability  that may well have a genetic component to it.    	  バレエには非常に高度な知識と技術が必要とされます バレエには非常に高度な知識と技術が必要とされます さらに遺伝による適正も必要かもしれません さらに遺伝による適正も必要かもしれません  
 Now, sadly, neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease  gradually destroy this extraordinary ability,  as it is doing to my friend Jan Stripling, who was  a virtuoso ballet dancer in his time.    	  パーキンソン病などの神経変成疾患は残念なことに こうした素晴らしい能力を徐々に奪っていきます かつてのバレエのトップダンサーで私の友人である ジャン・ストリップリングにもこの悲劇が襲いました  
 So great progress and treatment has been made over the years.    	  技術の進歩は目覚ましく何年も治療の努力は続いていますが  
 However, there are 6.3 million people worldwide  who have the disease, and they have to live with  incurable weakness, tremor, rigidity  and the other symptoms that go along with the disease,  so what we need are objective tools  to detect the disease before it's too late.    	  それでも世界で630万人が この病を患っており 不治の衰弱・震え・硬直などといった この病気の症状に苦しんでいます そこで必要なのが手遅れになる前に 病気を診断できる客観的な方法です  
 We need to be able to measure progression objectively,  and ultimately, the only way we're going to know  when we actually have a cure is when we have  an objective measure that can answer that for sure.    	  病気の進行を客観的に測ること そして最終的には いつ治療法が 得られるのかを知る唯一の方法は 客観的な判定しかないのです  
 But frustratingly, with Parkinson's disease  and other movement disorders, there are no biomarkers,  so there's no simple blood test that you can do,  and the best that we have is like  this 20-minute neurologist test.    	  しかし口惜しいことにパーキンソン病や 他の運動障害は生体指標がなく 血液検査で簡単にわかるものでもありません 目下 最良の方法とされているのが 神経学者による20分間のテストですが  
 You have to go to the clinic to do it. It's very, very costly,  and that means that, outside the clinical trials,  it's just never done. It's never done.    	  これは病院に行く必要があり費用もかかり つまり臨床試験以外では 誰もやる人がいません  
 But what if patients could do this test at home?    	  もし患者がこのテストを家でできるとしたら？  
 Now, that would actually save on a difficult trip to the clinic,  and what if patients could do that test themselves, right?    	  わざわざ病院に行く必要もなくなります そして自分でこのテストを行えるとしたら？  
 No expensive staff time required.    	  高い診療費も浮くわけです  
 Takes about $300, by the way,  in the neurologist's clinic to do it. So what I want to propose to you as an unconventional way  in which we can try to achieve this,  because, you see, in one sense, at least,  we are all virtuosos like my friend Jan Stripling.    	  神経科でのテストは 300ドルくらいかかります そこで今日ご紹介したいのがちょっと変わった判定方法です そこで今日ご紹介したいのがちょっと変わった判定方法です 私たちは皆ある意味で 私の友人ジャン・ストリップリングのような「名手」です  
 So here we have a video of the vibrating vocal folds.    	  この動画は発話によって声帯が振動している様子です  
 Now, this is healthy and this is somebody making speech sounds,  and we can think of ourselves as vocal ballet dancers,  because we have to coordinate all of these vocal organs  have the genes for it. FoxP2, for example.    	  この声帯の持ち主は健康体です 私たちは皆 声のバレエダンサーと言えます 人が発話をする際には 全ての声帯組織の調整が必要です このためにFoxP2のような遺伝子があるのです  
 And like ballet, it takes an extraordinary level of training.    	  声帯振動はバレエ同様 激しい訓練の賜物です  
 I mean, just think how long it takes a child to learn to speak.    	  赤ん坊が話し始めるまでには 長い時間がかかりますね  
 From the sound, we can actually track  the vocal fold position as it vibrates,  and just as the limbs are affected in Parkinson's,  so too are the vocal organs.    	  私たちは音を聴いて 声帯の動きを追うことができます パーキンソン病は四肢だけでなく 声帯組織にも影響を与えます 下の線が声帯の正常でない動きを追ったものです  
 So on the bottom trace, you can see an example of  irregular vocal fold tremor.    	  下の線が声帯の正常でない動きを追ったものです 震え・衰弱・硬直といった  
 We see all the same symptoms.    	  四肢と同じ症状が声帯にも見られます  
 We see vocal tremor, weakness and rigidity.    	  病気の症状としてしばらくすると  
 The speech actually becomes quieter and more breathy  So these vocal effects can actually be quite subtle,  in some cases, but with any digital microphone,  and using precision voice analysis software  in combination with the latest in machine learning,  which is very advanced by now,  we can now quantify exactly where somebody lies  on a continuum between health and disease using voice signals alone.    	  声が小さくなり息継ぎが増えます 場合によってこの声の変化は非常に微かなものですが どんなデジタルマイクでも 精密音声分析のソフトと 最新の学習型の機械を用いて 最新の学習型の機械を用いて 発話者の病気の進行状況を 正確に知ることができます 必要なのは音声信号だけです  
 So these voice-based tests, how do they stack up against  expert clinical tests? We'll, they're both non-invasive.    	  さてこの音声によるテストは 専門家のテストに太刀打ちできるでしょうか  
 The neurologist's test is non-invasive. They both use existing infrastructure.    	  両方とも何かを身体に突っ込んだりしませんし 既存のインフラを使います  
 You don't have to design a whole new set of hospitals to do it.    	  どちらも専用の病院施設を作る必要はありません  
 And they're both accurate. Okay, but in addition,  voice-based tests are non-expert.    	  そしてどちらも正確な診断が可能ですが 音声テストでは専門家は必要ありません  
 That means they can be self-administered.    	  自分で検査を実施できます  
 They're high-speed, take about 30 seconds at most.    	  時間もかからず 長くても30秒で事足ります  
 They're ultra-low cost, and we all know what happens.    	  更にコストはほぼゼロです  
 When something becomes ultra-low cost,  it becomes massively scalable.    	  そうすると何が起こるかというと 非常に大きな規模で検査を実施できるようになります  
 So here are some amazing goals that I think we can deal with now.    	  そして私たちが目指す4つの目標がこちらです  
 We can reduce logistical difficulties with patients.    	  「患者の負担を軽減すること」  
 No need to go to the clinic for a routine checkup.    	  「定期検診のための通院は不要にすること」  
 We can do high-frequency monitoring to get objective data.    	  「高い頻度でデータを取ること」  
 We can perform low-cost mass recruitment for clinical trials,  and we can make population-scale screening  feasible for the first time.    	  「臨床試験の大量動員を低コストで実施すること」 こうして初めて大規模な スクリーニングが可能になります こうして初めて大規模な スクリーニングが可能になります  
 We have the opportunity to start to search  for the early biomarkers of the disease before it's too late.    	  診断可能な生体指標を 手遅れになる前に探し始めることが可能になります  
 So, taking the first steps towards this today,  we're launching the Parkinson's Voice Initiative.    	  今日はそのための第一歩として パーキンソン・ボイス・イニシアティブを立ち上げます 今日はそのための第一歩として パーキンソン・ボイス・イニシアティブを立ち上げます  
 With Aculab and PatientsLikeMe, we're aiming  to record a very large number of voices worldwide  to collect enough data to start to tackle these four goals.    	  "aculab''や''patientslikeme''と協力し 世界中で大量の音声データを収集することで 4つの目標に挑戦することができます  
 We have local numbers accessible to three quarters  of a billion people on the planet.    	  7億5千万人がアクセス可能な電話番号を 地域毎に用意し  
 Anyone healthy or with Parkinson's can call in, cheaply,  and leave recordings, a few cents each,  and I'm really happy to announce that we've already hit  six percent of our target just in eight hours.    	  パーキンソン症候群を煩っている人 健康な人でも誰もが 数セントで気軽に録音をできます 嬉しいことにこの8時間で 既に目標の6%に到達しています  
 Thank you.     Tom Rielly: So Max, by taking all these samples of,  let's say, 10,000 people,  you'll be able to tell who's healthy and who's not?    	  ありがとうございます（拍手） （拍手） （トム・ライリー）：例えば1万人分のサンプル音声を 採取して 病気に罹っているか否かわかるのですか？ サンプルからは実際に何がわかるのですか？  
 What are you going to get out of those samples?    	  病気に罹っているか否かわかるのですか？ サンプルからは実際に何がわかるのですか？  
 Max Little: Yeah. Yeah. So what will happen is that,  during the call you have to indicate whether or not  you have the disease or not, you see. TR: Right.    	  ：つまりこうです 電話で人は病気か否かを 言う必要があります  
 ML: You see, some people may not do it. They may not get through it.    	  もちろんそれが正確にできない場合もあるでしょうが  
 But we'll get a very large sample of data that is collected  in different circumstances that matter because then  we are looking at ironing out the confounding factors,  and looking for the actual markers of the disease.    	  様々な環境において 非常に膨大なサンプルを集めます このサンプルの数が重要なのです それによって交絡因子を排除して この病気の本当の兆候を探すことができます  
 TR: So you're 86 percent accurate right now?    	  （トム・ライリー）：精度は86％でしたか？  
 ML: It's much better than that.    	  ：改善しています  
 Actually, my student Thanasis, I have to plug him,  because he's done some fantastic work,  and now he has proved that it works over the mobile telephone network as well,  which enables this project, and we're getting 99 percent accuracy.    	  私の学生サナシスのことを宣伝しないといけないですね 素晴らしい働きをしてくれました 彼は携帯電話のネットワークでも サンプル採取が可能であることを証明しました 更にその精度は99%に達しています  
 TR: Ninety-nine. Well, that's an improvement.    	  （トム・ライリー）：それはすごい進歩だ  
 So what that means is that people will be able to —  ML:   TR: People will be able to call in from their mobile phones  and do this test, and people with Parkinson's could call in,  record their voice, and then their doctor can check up  on their progress, see where they're doing in this course of the disease.    	  つまり誰もが― ： パーキンソン病の人でも誰でも 携帯電話から電話をしてテストのために 自分の声を録音すると専門家がチェックして 進行度を調べてくれるということですね  
 ML: Absolutely.    	  ：その通りです  
 TR: Thanks so much. Max Little, everybody.    	  （トム・ライリー）：ありがとうございました  
 ML: Thanks, Tom.     	  ：ありがとうございました（拍手）  
 Before March, 2011, I was a photographic retoucher  based in New York City.    	  2011年3月以前 私はニューヨーク市で 写真加工技師をしていました 2011年3月以前 私はニューヨーク市で 写真加工技師をしていました  
 We're pale, gray creatures.    	  私達は血色悪い灰色の生き物です  
 We hide in dark, windowless rooms,  and generally avoid sunlight.    	  暗く窓もない部屋に籠もり 日光を避けるようにします  
 We make skinny models skinnier, perfect skin more perfect,  and the impossible possible,  and we get criticized in the press all the time,  but some of us are actually talented artists with years of experience  and a real appreciation for images and photography.    	  私達は細身のモデルをさらに細身に 完璧な肌をさらに完璧に そして不可能を可能にします 出版業界から常に非難を受けますが 私達の仲間は長年の経験を持ち 映像や写真に造詣が深い才能ある芸術家です  
 On March 11, 2011, I watched from home, as the rest  of the world did, as the tragic events unfolded in Japan.    	  映像や写真に造詣が深い才能ある芸術家です 2011年3月11日 世界が目撃した日本で起きた悲劇を  
 Soon after, an organization I volunteer with,  All Hands Volunteers, were on the ground, within days,  working as part of the response efforts.    	  私も家で見ていました 私がボランティアとして参加した オール・ハンズ・ボランティアズは地震発生後数日以内に 現地に入り復旧活動を開始しました  
 I, along with hundreds of other volunteers,  knew we couldn't just sit at home,  so I decided to join them for three weeks.    	  私は数多くのボランティアと同じく 家でじっとしていることができず 私は３週間彼らに同行することにしました  
 On May the 13th, I made my way to the town of Ōfunato.    	  5月13日 私は大船渡に到着しました  
 It's a small fishing town in Iwate Prefecture,  about 50,000 people,  one of the first that was hit by the wave.    	  岩手県の人口約５万人の小さな漁業の町で 岩手県の人口約５万人の小さな漁業の町で 津波に最初に襲われた町のひとつです  
 The waters here have been recorded at reaching  over 24 meters in height,  and traveled over two miles inland.    	  記録では津波の高さは24m以上に達し 内陸に3Km以上遡上しました 内陸に3Km以上遡上しました  
 As you can imagine, the town had been devastated.    	  ご想像の通り 町は壊滅的打撃を受けました  
 We pulled debris from canals and ditches.    	  私達は用水路や溝から瓦礫を拾い  
 We cleaned schools. We de-mudded and gutted homes  ready for renovation and rehabilitation.    	  学校を清掃しました 家々の修理や再建に向けて 泥や瓦礫の除去をしました  
 We cleared tons and tons of stinking, rotting fish carcasses  from the local fish processing plant.    	  地元の水産加工工場では悪臭漂う大量の 腐った魚の死体を片づけました  
 We got dirty, and we loved it.    	  泥まみれになっても懸命に  
 For weeks, all the volunteers and locals alike  had been finding similar things.    	  その間ボランティアも地元の人も 同じ物を見つけていました  
 They'd been finding photos and photo albums  and cameras and SD cards.    	  写真 アルバム カメラ SDカード です 写真 アルバム カメラ SDカード です  
 And everyone was doing the same.    	  それらを見つけると 誰もが同じように  
 They were collecting them up, and handing them in to  Now, it wasn't until this point that I realized  that these photos were such a huge part  of the personal loss these people had felt.    	  町のあちこちにある保管所に持ち寄ったのです この時 私は初めて気付いたのですが これらの写真は被災者が味わった個人的な 喪失感の大きな部分を占めていたのです  
 As they had run from the wave, and for their lives,  absolutely everything they had,  everything had to be left behind.    	  津波から命からがら逃げる際には 全ての所持品は 置き去りにするしかありませんでした  
 At the end of my first week there, I found myself  helping out in an evacuation center in the town.    	  参加して１週間経つ頃 私は 町の避難所で手伝いをしていました  
 I was helping clean the onsen, the communal onsen,  the huge giant bathtubs. This happened to also be a place in the town where  the evacuation center was collecting the photos.    	  温泉で 公衆浴場の大きな浴槽の 掃除を手伝っていました 温泉で 公衆浴場の大きな浴槽の 掃除を手伝っていました この避難所も発見された写真を  
 This is where people were handing them in,  and I was honored that day that they actually trusted me  to help them start hand-cleaning them.    	  集積している場所の一つでした みんなが写真を持ち寄っており 私は光栄にも皆さんの信頼を得て 写真を手でクリーニングする作業を始めました  
 Now, it was emotional and it was inspiring,  and I've always heard about thinking outside the box,  but it wasn't until I had actually gotten outside of my box  that something happened.    	  感情あふれる感動的な仕事でした 発想を変えろとはよく言いますが 実際に発想を変えてみると 何かが起きるものです  
 As I looked through the photos, there were some  were over a hundred years old,  some still in the envelope from the processing lab,  I couldn't help but think as a retoucher  that I could fix that tear and mend that scratch,  and I knew hundreds of people who could do the same.    	  見てみると幾つかの写真は100年以上前のものでした 見てみると幾つかの写真は100年以上前のものでした 現像所の封筒に入ったままの写真もありました 私は写真の加工技師として 破れた個所を直し 傷を消すことができ 手伝える人をたくさん知っていると思いました  
 So that evening, I just reached out on Facebook  and asked a few of them, and by morning  the response had been so overwhelming and so positive,  I knew we had to give it a go.    	  そこでその夜 フェイスブックを使って 何人かに聞いてみました 翌朝 圧倒的に前向きな返答が届いたのを見て 始めてみよう と思いました  
 So we started retouching photos.    	  それで写真の修復を始めました  
 This was the very first.    	  最初に手がけたのが この写真です  
 Not terribly damaged, but where the water had caused  that discoloration on the girl's face  had to be repaired with such accuracy and delicacy.    	  傷みはひどくありませんが 少女の顔の水に濡れた部分は 変色しており とても正確かつ 精巧に修復する必要がありました  
 Otherwise, that little girl isn't going to look  like that little girl anymore, and surely that's as tragic  as having the photo damaged.    	  さもなければ少女は もはや少女のたたずまいを失い さもなければ少女は もはや少女のたたずまいを失い 破壊された写真同様に悲劇的です  
   Over time, more photos came in, thankfully,  and more retouchers were needed,  and so I reached out again on Facebook and LinkedIn,  and within five days, 80 people wanted to help  from 12 different countries.    	   時間が経つと 幸いにもさらに多くの写真が到着しました より多くの加工技師が必要になりました そこで再び フェイスブックとリンクトインで協力を募ると ５日間で 12カ国から80人が支援を申し出ました ５日間で 12カ国から80人が支援を申し出ました  
 Within two weeks, I had 150 people wanting to join in.    	  ２週間経つと 150人が参加を表明しました  
 Within Japan, by July, we'd branched out  to the neighboring town of Rikuzentakata,  further north to a town called Yamada.    	  ２週間経つと 150人が参加を表明しました 日本国内では７月になると隣町の 陸前高田やさらに北の山田町でも活動しました  
 Once a week, we would set up our scanning equipment  in the temporary photo libraries that had been set up,  where people were reclaiming their photos.    	  陸前高田やさらに北の山田町でも活動しました 週に一度 私達は建設された仮設写真保管所で スキャナー装置を設置しました そこには人々が失くした写真を探しに来ます  
 The older ladies sometimes hadn't seen a scanner before,  but within 10 minutes of them finding their lost photo,  they could give it to us, have it scanned,  uploaded to a cloud server, it would be downloaded  by a gaijin, a stranger,  somewhere on the other side of the globe,  and it'd start being fixed.    	  年配の女性はスキャナーを初めて見ますが 失った写真を見つけると私達に手渡します 写真は10分もしないうちにスキャンされ クラウド・サーバーにアップロードされ 地球の反対側のどこかにいる 見知らぬ外国人がダウンロードして 修復作業が始まります  
 The time it took, however, to get it back  is a completely different story,  and it depended obviously on the damage involved.    	  写真の修復自体はそんなに簡単にはいきません 写真の修復自体はそんなに簡単にはいきません もちろん破損の程度によって異なり  
 It could take an hour. It could take weeks. It could take months.    	  １時間のこともあれば 何週間 何カ月も  
 The kimono in this shot pretty much had to be hand-drawn,  or pieced together, picking out the remaining parts of color  and detail that the water hadn't damaged.    	  要することもありました この写真の着物は水に濡れなかった部分の色や 細部の模様を利用して人手で描き直したりして  
 It was very time-consuming.    	  組み立てました とても時間を要しました  
 Now, all these photos had been damaged by water,  submerged in salt water, covered in bacteria,  in sewage, sometimes even in oil, all of which over time  is going to continue to damage them,  so hand-cleaning them was a huge part of the project.    	  これらの写真は全て 水で濡れたり 海水に浸かったり 細菌に覆われたり ドブに浸かったり さらには油で汚れています それらが全て写真を劣化させるので 手作業のクリーニングは このプロジェクトの大きな仕事でした  
 We couldn't retouch the photo unless it was cleaned,  dry and reclaimed.    	  写真の修正ができるのはクリーニング 乾燥 再生が完了してからです  
 Now, we were lucky with our hand-cleaning.    	  幸いにもクリーニングには  
 We had an amazing local woman who guided us.    	  地元の素晴らしい女性が協力してくれました  
 It's very easy to do more damage to those damaged photos.    	  破損した写真は気をつけないと さらに破損しかねません  
 As my team leader Wynne once said,  it's like doing a tattoo on someone.    	  リーダーのウィンが言うには 「誰かに入れ墨をするようなもので  
 You don't get a chance to mess it up.    	  失敗は許されないんだ」 と  
 The lady who brought us these photos was lucky,  as far as the photos go.    	  これらの写真を持ちこんだ女性は 写真に関しては幸運でした  
 She had started hand-cleaning them herself and stopped  when she realized she was doing more damage.    	  自分でクリーニングを始めたのですが 更に傷つけていると気付いて止めたのです  
 She also had duplicates.    	  複製もありました  
 Areas like her husband and her face, which otherwise  would have been completely impossible to fix,  we could just put them together in one good photo,  and remake the whole photo.    	  それがなければ ご主人や彼女の顔を 修復することは不可能でした 私達は２枚を重ね合わせて１枚のきれいな写真を 蘇らせました  
 When she collected the photos from us,  she shared a bit of her story with us.    	  彼女は修復した写真を受け取る際に ある物語を語ってくれました  
 Her photos were found by her husband's colleagues  at a local fire department in the debris  a long way from where the home had once stood,  and they'd recognized him.    	  この写真はかつて家があった場所から遠く離れた 地元の消防署の瓦礫の中から ご主人の同僚の方が見つけ それがご主人だと分かったのでした  
 The day of the tsunami, he'd actually been in charge  of making sure the tsunami gates were closed.    	  津波が来た時 ご主人は水門が 閉まっているか見回り中でした 津波が来た時 ご主人は水門が 閉まっているか見回り中でした  
 He had to go towards the water as the sirens sounded.    	  サイレンが鳴り響く中 水辺に向かって行ったのです  
 Her two little boys, not so little anymore, but her two boys  were both at school, separate schools.    	  ２人の小さな子供は― 当時はもう小さくありませんでしたが― それぞれ別の学校にいました  
 One of them got caught up in the water.    	  一人が津波にさらわれました  
 It took her a week to find them all again  and find out that they had all survived.    	  一週間かけてようやく家族全員を見つけ みんなが無事だったことが分かりました  
 The day I gave her the photos also happened to be  her youngest son's 14th birthday.    	  彼女に写真を手渡した日は偶然にも 次男の14歳の誕生日でした  
 For her, despite all of this, those photos  were the perfect gift back to him,  something he could look at again, something he remembered from before  that wasn't still scarred from that day in March  when absolutely everything else in his life had changed  or been destroyed.    	  彼女にとって写真はこの災難の最中でさえ 次男への最高の贈り物でした 写真を見て彼は以前のことを思い出せるでしょう 彼の人生の全てを破壊し変えてしまった あの３月の忌まわしい日より前のことを あの３月の忌まわしい日より前のことを  
 After six months in Japan,  1,100 volunteers had passed through All Hands,  hundreds of whom had helped us hand-clean  over 135,000 photographs,  the large majority —  —  a large majority of which did actually find their home again,  importantly.    	  日本に滞在した６カ月の間 1,100人のボランティアが オール・ハンズに参加し その大部分の人が 13万5千枚を越す 写真のクリーニングを手伝いました その写真の多くは —  — その写真の多くは持ち主に戻りました 大事な成果です  
 Over five hundred volunteers around the globe  helped us get 90 families hundreds of photographs back,  fully restored and retouched.    	  世界中の500人を超すボランティアが 90 を越す家族に数多くの写真を完全に修復 加工して返す協力をしました  
 During this time, we hadn't really spent more than  about a thousand dollars in equipment and materials,  most of which was printer inks.    	  この活動期間中使ったお金は 機械や材料用に1,000ドル程度です プリンターのインク代が殆どでした  
 We take photos constantly.    	  私達は常に写真を撮ります  
 A photo is a reminder of someone or something,  a place, a relationship, a loved one.    	  写真は 誰かの 何かの どこかの場所や 人の絆そして愛する人の思い出です 写真は 誰かの 何かの どこかの場所や 人の絆そして愛する人の思い出です  
 They're our memory-keepers and our histories,  the last thing we would grab  and the first thing you'd go back to look for.    	  写真は記憶をとどめる 私たちの歴史です 最後に持ち出そうとするもの そして戻った時に最初に探すのが写真です  
 That's all this project was about,  about restoring those little bits of humanity,  giving someone that connection back.    	  それがこのプロジェクトの全てです 人間性の一つ一つを回復し誰かに 人のつながりを戻すのです  
 When a photo like this can be returned to someone like this,  it makes a huge difference  in the lives of the person receiving it.    	  このような写真をこのような人々に返すことは 受け取った人の人生に 大きな違いをもたらします  
 The project's also made a big difference in the lives of the retouchers.    	  このプロジェクトは写真加工技師の人生も大きく変えました  
 For some of them, it's given them a connection  to something bigger, giving something back,  using their talents on something  other than skinny models and perfect skin.    	  何人かにとっては何かさらに大きな物への つながりを感じると共に 持っている才能を 細身のモデルや完璧な肌以外に活用できました  
 I would like to conclude by reading an email  I got from one of them, Cindy,  the day I finally got back from Japan after six months.    	  最後に１通のメールを紹介します ６か月後日本から戻ったその日に 仲間の一人シンディがくれたメールです  
 "As I worked, I couldn't help but think about the individuals  and the stories represented in the images.    	  「お手伝いをしながら 写真に映った一人一人の物語に 思いを馳せるのが止まりませんでした  
 One in particular, a photo of women of all ages,  from grandmother to little girl, gathered around a baby,  struck a chord, because a similar photo from my family,  my grandmother and mother, myself,  and newborn daughter, hangs on our wall.    	  特に お婆さんから小さな女の子まで 全ての世代の女性が 赤ちゃんを囲んでいる一枚の写真には胸が一杯になりました 私の家族の同じような写真 祖母 母 私 生まれたての娘の写真が 家の壁に掛かっているからです  
 Across the globe, throughout the ages,  our basic needs are just the same, aren't they?"    	  世界中どこでも いつの時代でも 私達の基本的な願いは全く同じなのですね」  
 Thank you.       	  ありがとう    
 with this photo of a bullet piercing through an apple,  and exposure just a millionth of a second.    	  エジャートン博士の リンゴを撃ちぬく弾丸の写真は 100万分の1秒を捉えたもので  
 But now, 50 years later, we can go a million times faster  and see the world not at a million or a billion,  but one trillion frames per second.    	  誰もが驚き 好奇心をかき立てられました そして今 50年を経て 撮影速度が その100万倍も速くなり 100万でも 10億でもなく 毎秒1兆フレームで 世界を見られるようになりました  
 I present to you a new type of photography,  femto-photography,  a new imaging technique so fast  that it can create slow motion videos of light in motion.    	  ご紹介するのは新しい撮影技術 フェムト・フォトグラフィーです この非常に高速な 新しいイメージング技術では 伝わっていく光でさえも スローモーション撮影できます  
 And with that, we can create cameras that can look around corners,  beyond line of sight,  or see inside our body without an x-ray,  and really challenge what we mean by a camera.    	  またこの技術を使って 見通せない角の 先を見られるカメラや X線を使わないで 体内を観察できるカメラを作れます カメラという言葉の意味が 大きく変わるのです  
 Now if I take a laser pointer and turn it on and off  in one trillionth of a second --  which is several femtoseconds --  I'll create a packet of photons barely a millimeter wide.    	  レーザーポインターを点滅させるとしましょう 1兆分の1秒で点滅させれば つまり数フェムト秒の間隔なら 生じた光子の塊の長さは ほんの1ミリ程度になり  
 And that packet of photons, that bullet,  will travel at the speed of light,  and again, a million times faster than an ordinary bullet.    	  この光子の塊 すなわち弾丸が 光の速度で進みます これは普通の弾丸より 100万倍速いのです  
 Now, if you take that bullet and take this packet of photons  and fire into this bottle,  how will those photons shatter into this bottle?    	  そんな光子の塊という弾丸を使って ボトルに打ち込んだら 光子はどんなふうに砕け散るでしょう  
 How does light look in slow motion?    	  スローモーションの光は どう見えるでしょう  
 [Light in Slow Motion ... 10 Billion x Slow]    Now remember, the whole event is effectively taking place  in less than a nanosecond --  that's how much time it takes for light to travel.    	  そしてお見せしたー  お見せした全ての事象は ナノ秒より短い 時間で起きていることを念頭にご覧ください 光が通過する時間が ナノ秒以下なのです  
 But I'm slowing down in this video by a factor of 10 billion,  so you can see the light in motion.    	  このビデオは100億倍遅く再生しているので 光の動きが見えるのです  
 But Coca-Cola did not sponsor this research.   Now, there's a lot going on in this movie,  so let me break this down and show you what's going on.    	  ちなみに コカコーラからのご支援は頂いていません  ビデオでは色々な事が起こっています 何が起きているか順に説明しましょう  
 So the pulse enters the bottle, our bullet,  with a packet of photons that start traveling through  and that start scattering inside.    	  パルスすなわち弾丸がボトルに入ります 光子の塊が横切り始めると 内部での散乱も始まります  
 Some of the light leaks, goes on the table,  and you start seeing these ripples of waves.    	  漏れだす光もあり テーブルを照らします そしてさざ波のようなものも見えます  
 Many of the photons eventually reach the cap  and then they explode in various directions.    	  最終的に大半の光子がキャップに到達して あらゆる方向に飛び散ります  
 As you can see, there's a bubble of air  and it's bouncing around inside.    	  空気の泡も見えますが そこでは内部に跳ね返ります  
 Meanwhile, the ripples are traveling on the table,  and because of the reflections at the top,  you see at the back of the bottle, after several frames,  the reflections are focused.    	  同時にテーブル上の波も広がっていきます 上面での反射のために 何フレームか後にはボトルの底側に 反射光が集まります  
 Now, if you take an ordinary bullet  and let it go the same distance and slow down the video --  again, by a factor of 10 billion --  do you know how long you'll have to sit here to watch that movie?    	  普通の弾丸を撃って 同じ距離進む映像を撮って 100億倍でスロー再生したら どれほど時間のかかるビデオになるでしょう  
 A day, a week? Actually, a whole year.    	  一日？一週間？実はまる一年もかかります  
 It'll be a very boring movie --   of a slow, ordinary bullet in motion.    	  かなり退屈な映像でしょう  普通の弾丸がゆっくりと動いていくのです  
 And what about some still-life photography?    	  こんな静物の写真を撮ってみました  
 You can watch the ripples, again, washing over the table,  the tomato and the wall in the back.    	  テーブル表面やトマトや後ろの壁を 流れるさざ波が見えます  
 It's like throwing a stone in a pond of water.    	  池の水面に石を投げ込んだみたいです  
 I thought: this is how nature paints a photo,  one femto frame at a time,  but of course our eye sees an integral composite.    	  フェムト秒で撮った写真を 自然はこう彩るのかと驚きました もちろん人の眼には 統合された合成画像が見えます  
 But if you look at this tomato one more time,  you will notice, as the light washes over the tomato,  it continues to glow. It doesn't become dark. Why is that?    	  ただもう一度トマトを見てもらうと トマトが光に洗い流されている間 光り続け 暗くなることはありません  
 Because the tomato is actually ripe,  and the light is bouncing around inside the tomato,  and it comes out after several trillionths of a second.    	  なぜでしょう それはトマトが熟していて 光はトマトの内部で反射を繰り返し 一兆分の数秒で外に出てくるからです  
 So in the future, when this femto-camera is in your camera phone,  you might be able to go to a supermarket  and check if the fruit is ripe without actually touching it.    	  将来このフェムトカメラが 携帯電話に付いたら スーパーに行って 果物が熟しているかどうか 手も触れずに調べられるでしょう  
 So how did my team at MIT create this camera?    	  MIT の私のチームはどうやって このカメラを作ったのでしょう  
 Now, as photographers, you know,  if you take a short exposure photo, you get very little light.    	  写真を撮る人はご存知のように 露出時間を短くすると 光の量は大変少なくなります  
 But we're going to go a billion times faster than your shortest exposure,  so you're going to get hardly any light.    	  さらに 通常の短時間露光よりも 百億倍以上速くしようというのです だから光はほとんどありません  
 So what we do is we send that bullet --  that packet of photons -- millions of times,  and record again and again with very clever synchronization,  and from the gigabytes of data,  we computationally weave together  to create those femto-videos I showed you.    	  我々は光の塊の弾丸を 何百万回も発射します 非常に巧妙に 同期を取りながら記録を繰り返し 何ギガバイトものデータから 計算によって織り出される物が 先ほどご覧になったフェムトビデオです  
 And we can take all that raw data and treat it in very interesting ways.    	  処理前のデータをいろいろ使って 非常に興味深い処理もできます  
 So, Superman can fly.    	  スーパーマンは空を飛び  
 Some other heroes can become invisible.    	  透明になるヒーローもいます  
 But what about a new power for a future superhero:  To see around corners.    	  これからのスーパーヒーローの新しい能力として 角の先を見通すのはどうでしょう  
 The idea is that we could shine some light on the door,  it's going to bounce, go inside the room,  some of that is going to reflect back on the door,  and then back to the camera.    	  このアイデアは扉を照らした光が 跳ね返って部屋の中に入ると その一部が反射されて扉に戻り カメラまで戻ってくるので  
 And we could exploit these multiple bounces of light.    	  こんなふうに多重反射した光を利用できるのです  
 And it's not science fiction. We have actually built it.    	  これは空想SFではなく実際に作りました  
 On the left, you see our femto-camera.    	  左にあるのがフェムトカメラです  
 There's a mannequin hidden behind a wall,  and we're going to bounce light off the door.    	  壁の後ろにマネキンが隠れています 光は扉で跳ね返ります  
 So after our paper was published in Nature Communications,  it was highlighted by Nature.com,  and they created this animation.     Ramesh Raskar: We're going to fire those bullets of light,  and they're going to hit this wall,  and because of the packet of the photons,  they will scatter in all the directions,  and some of them will reach our hidden mannequin,  which in turn will again scatter that light,  and again in turn, the door will reflect some of that scattered light.    	  我々の論文がネイチャー・コミュニケーションズ誌に 掲載された後で ネイチャーのサイトで特集され こんなアニメーションを作ってくれました  光の弾丸を発射するところです 壁に当たります 光子の塊は あらゆる方向に飛び散り 隠れたマネキンに当たる光子もあります そのマネキンがまた光を散乱させ そして再び今度は扉が 散乱光の一部を反射します  
 And a tiny fraction of the photons will actually come back to the camera,  but most interestingly,  they will all arrive at a slightly different time slot.    	  光子のほんの一部が カメラに戻ります 大事なのは 光が帰ってくるタイミングが 少しずつ違っていること  
   And because we have a camera that can run so fast --  our femto-camera -- it has some unique abilities.    	   使用したカメラは 大変高速なフェムトカメラなので 独特な能力があります  
 It has very good time resolution,  and it can look at the world at the speed of light.    	  時間分解能が大変優れていて 世界を光の速度で眺めることができるわけです  
 And this way, we know the distances, of course to the door,  but also to the hidden objects,  but we don't know which point corresponds to which distance.    	  こうして 扉までの距離や 隠れた物体までの距離がわかります こうして 扉までの距離や 隠れた物体までの距離がわかります ただどの点が どの距離に相当するのかわかりません  
   By shining one laser, we can record one raw photo,  which, if you look on the screen, doesn't really make any sense.    	   レーザー光を一度光らせて 未処理写真が一枚撮れますが これだけ見ても 何だか分かりません  
 But then we will take a lot of such pictures,  dozens of such pictures, put them together,  and try to analyze the multiple bounces of light,  and from that, can we see the hidden object?    	  しかし こういう写真をたくさん撮って こういう写真を何十枚も 組み合わせ 光の多重散乱の解析を試みれば そこから 隠れた物体を見られないでしょうか？  
 Can we see it in full 3D?    	  完全な立体として見ることはできないでしょうか？  
 So this is our reconstruction.    	  我々が再構成した結果はこうなりました  
     before we take this outside the lab on the road,  but in the future, we could create cars that avoid collisions  with what's around the bend.    	    この技術を実験室の外に持ち出す前に まだやるべきことはありますが いずれは 曲がり角の先の物との 衝突を避ける自動車や  
 Or we can look for survivors in hazardous conditions  by looking at light reflected through open windows.    	  危険な状況下での生存者探索に 開いた窓ごしに反射されてくる光を使ったり  
 Or we can build endoscopes that can see deep inside the body around occluders,  and also for cardioscopes.    	  体内の見通せないものの奥まで見られる 内視鏡や血管内視鏡も  
 But of course, because of tissue and blood,  this is quite challenging,  so this is really a call for scientists  to start thinking about femto-photography as really a new imaging modality  to solve the next generation of health-imaging problems.    	  作ることができるでしょう もちろん 細胞や血液があるので これは大変に難しい課題ですが 科学者の皆さんに考えはじめて欲しいことは 新しいイメージング手法のフェムト・フォトグラフィーで 次世代の医療イメージングの答えになる可能性です  
 Now, like Doc Edgerton, a scientist himself,  science became art -- an art of ultra-fast photography.    	  科学者であったエジャートン博士が 科学から超高速写真という芸術を生み出したように  
 And I realized  that all the gigabytes of data that we're collecting every time,  are not just for scientific imaging.    	  私も実験のたびに集まる 数ギガバイトのデータを使って 単に科学的な画像を作るだけでなく  
 But we can also do a new form of computational photography,  with time-lapse and color coding.    	  新しい形のコンピュテーショナル・フォトグラフィが 微速度撮影や色変換によって 実現できると気が付きました  
 And we look at those ripples.    	  さっきの波模様を見てみましょう  
 Remember:  The time between each of those ripples is only a few trillionths of a second.    	  この波どうしの時間差は 一兆分の数秒ほどです  
 But there's also something funny going on here.    	  ここで面白いことが起きています  
 When you look at the ripples under the cap,  the ripples are moving away from us.    	  キャップの下側を見てみると 波は遠ざかるほうに進んでいます  
 The ripples should be moving towards us.    	  波は近づいてくるはずなのです  
 What's going on here?    	  何が起きているのでしょうか  
 It turns out, because we're recording nearly at the speed of light,  we have strange effects,  and Einstein would have loved to see this picture.    	  実は 光の速度に 近い領域で記録したために 奇妙な効果が現われたのです アインシュタインはこの写真を見たかったことでしょう  
 The order at which events take place in the world  appears in the camera sometimes in reversed order.    	  カメラに見える世界の中で起きる 出来事の順番はときどき逆転し  
 So by applying the corresponding space and time warp,  we can correct for this distortion.    	  適切な時間と空間の歪みを考慮することで この歪みを補正することができます  
 So whether it's for photography around corners,  or creating the next generation of health imaging,  or creating new visualizations,  since our invention,  we have open-sourced all the data and details on our website,  and our hope is that the DIY, the creative and the research communities  will show us that we should stop obsessing about the megapixels in cameras --    and start focusing on the next dimension in imaging.    	  角を見通す写真であれ 次世代の医用画像であれ 新たな可視化技術の開発であれ 我々は発明した後は オープンソース化して 全てのデータと詳細をウェブに公開しました もの作り好きやクリエイターや 研究者からの こんな提言を期待しているのです カメラの画素が何メガピクセルかに こだわるのは止めよう  イメージングについては 新たな次元にフォーカスしよう  
 It's about time. Thank you.    	  「時」を考える 「時」になったのです ありがとう   
 Hi. This is my mobile phone.    	  こんにちは　これは私の携帯電話です  
 A mobile phone can change your life,  and a mobile phone gives you individual freedom.    	  携帯電話には皆さんの生活を変える力があります さらに皆さんに個人としての自由を与えてくれます  
 With a mobile phone,  you can shoot a crime against humanity in Syria.    	  携帯電話があれば シリアでの人道に反する罪を撮影できます  
 With a mobile phone,  you can tweet a message  and start a protest in Egypt.    	  携帯電話があれば ツイートを投稿して エジプトで抗議運動を始めることができます  
 And with a mobile phone,  you can record a song, load it up to  SoundCloud and become famous.    	  携帯電話があれば 歌を録音してSoundCloud にアップロードして 有名になることができます  
 All this is possible with your mobile phone.    	  携帯電話にはこれら全てを可能にする力があります  
 I'm a child of 1984,  and I live in the city of Berlin.    	  私は1984年に生まれ ベルリンに住んでいました  
 Let's go back to that time, to this city.    	  当時のこの街を見てみましょう  
 Here you can see  how hundreds of thousands of people  stood up and protested for change.    	  何十万もの人が変革を求めて立ち上がり 何十万もの人が変革を求めて立ち上がり 抗議している様子です  
 This is autumn 1989,  and imagine that all those people standing up  and protesting for change had a  mobile phone in their pocket.    	  これは1989年の秋のことです 立ち上がり　変革を求め抗議している この人々が皆 ポケットの中に 携帯電話を持っていたらどうなるでしょうか？  
 Who in the room has a mobile phone with you?    	  この中で携帯電話を持っている人はいますか？  
 Hold it up.    	  挙げてみてください  
 Hold your phones up, hold your phones up!    	  携帯電話を挙げて 挙げてください！  
 Hold it up. An Android, a Blackberry, wow.    	  挙げて下さい　アンドロイドやブラックベリーを おお  
 That's a lot. Almost everybody today has a mobile phone.    	  たくさんいますね 今日はほとんどの人が携帯電話をお持ちのようです  
 But today I will talk about me and my mobile phone,  and how it changed my life.    	  本日お話しするのは私と私の携帯電話について そしてそれがいかに私の人生を変えたかについてです  
 And I will talk about this.    	  こちらについて話しましょう  
 These are 35,830 lines of information.    	  ここに35,830行に渡る情報があります  
 Raw data.    	  生のデータです  
 And why are these informations there?    	  どうしてこんな情報がここにあるのでしょうか？  
 Because in the summer of 2006,  the E.U. Commission tabled a directive.    	  なぜなら2006年の夏に 欧州委員会がある指令を出したからです  
 This directive [is] called Data Retention Directive.    	  データ保全指令と呼ばれるものです  
 This directive says that each phone company in Europe,  each Internet service company all over Europe,  has to store a wide range of information about the users.    	  この指令はヨーロッパの携帯電話会社や インターネットサービス会社に 使用者に関する幅広い情報を保管するよう命じるものです  
 Who calls whom? Who sends whom an email?    	  誰が誰に電話するか？　誰が誰にメールを送るか？  
 Who sends whom a text message?    	  誰が誰にテキストメッセージを送るか？  
 And if you use your mobile phone, where you are.    	  携帯電話をどこで使用したか これら全ての情報が携帯電話会社やプロバイダーによって  
 All this information is stored for at least six months,  up to two years by your phone company or your Internet service provider.    	  少なくとも６ヶ月　最長2年間分保管されています 少なくとも６ヶ月　最長2年間分保管されています  
 And all over Europe, people stood up and said,  "We don't want this."    	  ヨーロッパ中の人々が「こんなものは求めていない」と 立ち上がったのでした  
 They said, we don't want this data retention.    	  データの保管は望んでいないと叫んだのです  
 We want self-determination in the digital age,  and we don't want that phone companies and Internet companies  have to store all this information about us.    	  今日のデジタル時代において我々は自己決定を求めており 携帯会社やインターネット会社が私たちに関する あらゆる情報を保管することは望んでいません  
 They were lawyers, journalists, priests,  they all said: "We don't want this."    	  彼らは弁護士やジャーナリスト 神父らで 彼らはみな「我々はこれを望まない」と言いました  
 And here you can see, like 10 thousands of people  went out on the streets of Berlin and said,  "Freedom, not fear."    	  そしてここから分かるように多くの人々が ベルリンの通りにくりだして 「恐怖ではなく 自由を」と叫びました  
 And some even said, this would be Stasi 2.0.    	  これは第二のシュタージだと言う人もいます  
 Stasi was the secret police in East Germany.    	  シュタージは東ドイツ時代の秘密警察です  
 And I also ask myself, does it really work?    	  これはうまくいくのか？と私は疑問に思っています  
 Can they really store all this information about us?    	  我々に関する全ての情報を蓄えるなんて 本当に出来るでしょうか？  
 Every time I use my mobile phone?    	  私が携帯電話を使用するたびに？  
 So I asked my phone company, Deutsche Telekom,  which was at that time the largest phone company in Germany,  and I asked them, please,  send me all the information you have stored about me.    	  なので私が契約をしているドイツテレコムに尋ねました 当時はドイツで最大の携帯会社でした 彼らが蓄えている私に関する 全ての情報を送るよう求めました  
 And I asked them once, and I asked them again,  and I got no real answer. It was only blah blah answers.    	  何度も何度も要求したんですが くだらない回答ばかりで まともな回答は得られませんでした  
 But then I said, I want to have this information,  because this is my life you are protocoling.    	  しかし私はこの情報を手元に欲しいんだと説明しました なぜならこの情報は私の人生の記録だからです  
 So I decided to start a lawsuit against them,  because I wanted to have this information.    	  この情報の取得を求めた私は 彼らを相手に裁判を起こそうと決めました  
 But Deutsche Telekom said, no,  we will not give you this information.    	  しかしドイツテレコムは反対して あなたにこの情報は提供できないと言いました  
 So at the end, I had a settlement with them.    	  最終的には 私は彼らと和解をしました  
 I'll put down the lawsuit  and they will send me all the information I ask for.    	  私は訴訟を取り下げて 彼らは情報を全て私に送ることになりました  
 Because in the mean time,  the German Constitutional Court ruled  that the implementation of this E.U. directive  into German law was unconstitutional.    	  ちょうどその頃 ドイツ憲法裁判所が 今回のEUの指令を施行することは 違憲であるという判決を下したためです  
 So I got this ugly brown envelope  with a C.D. inside.    	  CDが入ったこの不格好な 茶封筒が送られてきました  
 And on the C.D., this was on.    	  そして このCDに先ほどお見せした  
 Thirty-five thousand eight hundred thirty lines of information.    	  35,830行に渡る情報が入っていました  
 At first I saw it, and I said, okay,  it's a huge file. Okay.    	  最初に見たときは「よし 非常に大きなファイルだ　問題ない」と思いました  
 But then after a while I realized,  this is my life.    	  でもしばらくしてから これは私の人生だと 気付きました これはファイルに収められた  
 This is six months of my life,  So I was a little bit skeptical, what should I do with it?    	  私の人生の６ヶ月なんだと 私はどうすべきなのか？と少し当惑しました  
 Because you can see where I am,  where I sleep at night,  what I am doing.    	  なぜなら私がどこにいて 夜どこで寝て 何をしているか分かってしまうんですから  
 But then I said, I want to go out with this information.    	  その後 私はこの情報を共有したいと言いました  
 I want to make them public.    	  これを公表したい  
 Because I want to show the people what does data retention mean.    	  人々にデータ保全指令が何を意味するのか示したかったんです  
 So together with Zeit Online and Open Data City, I did this.    	  Zeit OnlineやOpen Data Cityを使って公表しました  
 This is a visualization of six months of my life.    	  これは私の人生の６ヶ月間を可視化したものです  
 You can zoom in and zoom out,  you can wind back and fast forward.    	  拡大したり縮小したりできますし 巻き戻したり早送りもできます  
 You can see every step I take.    	  私の行動を全て見ることができます  
 And you can even see  how I go from Frankfurt by train  to Cologne, and how often I call in between.    	  私がフランクフルトからケルンまで どのような路線を行くのか その間に何回 電話をするのかさえ分かってしまいます  
 All this is possible with this information.    	  この情報によりこれら全てが可能になるんです  
 That's a little bit scary.    	  ちょっとぞっとしますね  
 But it is not only about me.    	  でもこのことは私だけの問題ではありません  
 It's about all of us.    	  私たち全員に関わることです  
 First, it's only like, I call my wife and she calls me,  and we talk to each other a couple of times.    	  初めは私が妻に電話をし 妻が私に電話したりと 何度か通話するだけです  
 And then there are some friends calling me,  and they call each other.    	  更に 私に電話をしてくる友人がいて 彼ら同士でも通話をします  
 And after a while you are calling you,  and you are calling you, and you have this great  communication network.    	  あなたがあなたに電話をして そんなこんなでネットワークは 本当に大きなものになります  
 But you can see how your people are communicating with each other,  what times they call each other, when they go to bed.    	  でも 皆さんの通信記録や 通話回数から就寝時間まで分かります  
 You can see all of this.    	  全てが分かってしまうんです  
 You can see the hubs, like who are the leaders in the group.    	  誰がグループのリーダーであるかも分かります  
 If you have access to this information,  you can see what your society is doing.    	  この情報をがあれば 皆さんの 交際状況が分かってしまいます  
 If you have access to this information,  you can control your society.    	  この情報を入手できれば 皆さんの人間関係を支配することができます  
 This is a blueprint for countries like China and Iran.    	  これは中国やイランのような国々のための青写真です  
 This is a blueprint how to survey your society,  because you know who talks to whom,  who sends whom an email, all this is possible  if you have access to this information.    	  これは皆さんの人間関係を調べ上げるための青写真です なぜなら誰が誰と通話をして 誰が誰にＥメールを送っているか分かるからです この情報があればこれら全てが可能となります  
 And this information is stored for at least six months  in Europe, up to two years.    	  この情報はヨーロッパでは最低６ヶ月間 最長では２年間保管されます  
 Like I said at the beginning,  imagine that all those people on the streets of Berlin  in autumn of 1989  had a mobile phone in their pocket.    	  冒頭でお話したように 1989年の秋にベルリンで 立ち上がった人々みんなが ポケットに携帯電話を持っていたらどうなるでしょうか？  
 And the Stasi would have known who took part at this protest,  and if the Stasi would have known  who are the leaders behind it,  this may never have happened.    	  シュタージはこの抗議の参加者を特定できたでしょうし 抗議の裏にいる 指導者たちが事前に発覚していたら 抗議は決して起こらなかったでしょう  
 The fall of the Berlin Wall would maybe not [have been] there.    	  ベルリンの壁崩壊はなかったでしょう  
 And in the aftermath, also not the fall of the Iron Curtain.    	  その影響で鉄のカーテンの崩壊もなかったでしょう  
 Because today, state agencies and companies  want to store as much information as they can get about us,  online and offline.    	  今日では国家機関や企業は 私たちに関する情報をオンライン オフライン問わず できるだけ蓄えたいと思っています  
 They want to have the possibility to track our lives,  and they want to store them for all time.    	  彼らは私たちの生活を追跡する能力を欲しており 情報をいつまでも確保していたいのです  
 But self-determination and living in the digital age  is no contradiction.    	  しかし自己決定とデジタル時代に生きることは 矛盾することではありません  
 But you have to fight for your self-determination today.    	  しかし今日 自己決定のためには闘う必要があります  
 You have to fight for it every day.    	  そのためには毎日闘っていかなくてはいけません  
 So, when you go home,  that privacy is a value of the 21st century,  and it's not outdated.    	  家に帰ったら プライバシーは21世紀の財産であり 時代遅れではないことを  
 When you go home, tell your representative  only because companies and state agencies have the possibility  to store certain information, they don't have to do it.    	  友人に伝えてください 家に帰ったら企業や国家機関側に 情報を蓄積する能力が少しあるからといって そうする必要はないということを伝えてください  
 And if you don't believe me,  ask your phone company what information they store about you.    	  もし私のことを信じられなければ 携帯会社に尋ねてみてください 皆さんのどんな情報を蓄えているのかと  
 So, in the future, every time you use your mobile phone,  let it be a reminder to you  that you have to fight for self-determination in the digital age.    	  今後 皆さんが携帯電話を使うときは必ず思い出して欲しいと思います デジタル時代における自己決定を求めて 闘っていかなければならないことを  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 Hello, TEDWomen, what's up.    	  こんにちは TEDWomenの皆さん！  
   Not good enough.    	   声が小さいですね  
 Hello, TEDWomen, what is up?    	  こんにちは TEDWomenの皆さん！  
   My name is Maysoon Zayid,  and I am not drunk,  but the doctor who delivered me was.    	   私は メイスーン・ザイードです 酔っ払いではありません 私を取り上げてくれたお医者さんは そうだったようで  
 He cut my mom six different times  in six different directions,  suffocating poor little me in the process.    	  母のお腹に６回もメスを入れ それも それぞれ違う方向に 切ったものだから かわいそうな私は お腹の中で酸欠状態になって  
 As a result, I have cerebral palsy,  which means I shake all the time.    	  脳性まひを 抱えることになりました お蔭で ずっと震えています  
 Look.    	  ほらね  
 It's exhausting.    	  疲れますよ 歌姫シャキーラのベリーダンスと  
 I'm like Shakira, Shakira meets Muhammad Ali.    	  ボクサーのモハメド・アリを 同時にやってる感じですから  
   CP is not genetic.    	  ボクサーのモハメド・アリを 同時にやってる感じですから 脳性まひは 遺伝でも  
 It's not a birth defect. You can't catch it.    	  出生異常でもなく 感染もしません  
 No one put a curse on my mother's uterus,  and I didn't get it because my parents are first cousins,  which they are.    	  誰かが母の子宮に 呪いをかけたわけでも 両親が いとこ同士だったから でもないんです まあ いとこ同士ですけどね  
   It only happens from accidents,  like what happened to me on my birth day.    	   脳性まひは 事故で起こるものなんです ちょうど 私が生まれたときのように  
 Now, I must warn you,  I'm not inspirational.    	  最初にお断りしておきます 私に「感動」を求めないでください 皆さんも 私のことを  
 And I don't want anyone in this room to feel bad for me,  because at some point in your life,  you have dreamt of being disabled.    	  気の毒に思う必要は ありません というのも 長い人生 誰しも 障害者になることを 夢見ることもあるからです  
 Come on a journey with me.    	  例えば こんなときです  
 It's Christmas Eve, you're at the mall,  you're driving around in circles looking for parking,  and what do you see?    	  クリスマス・イブに ショッピングモールに来て 駐車スペースを探して あなたは 駐車場を回っています そこで目に入ったのは  
 Sixteen empty handicapped spaces.   And you're like, "God, can't I just be a little disabled?"    	  あなたは こう思うでしょう 「あー 神様 私に少しだけ障害をお与えください」  
   Also, I've got to tell you,  I've got 99 problems, and palsy is just one.    	   それから 私は99個の問題を抱えていて 脳性まひは その１つに過ぎません  
  If there was an Oppression Olympics,  I would win the gold medal.    	  もし 「世間の風当たりが 強い人選手権」があったら 金メダルが取れますね  
 I'm Palestinian, Muslim, I'm female, I'm disabled,  and I live in New Jersey.    	  私は パレスチナ人のイスラム教徒で 女性の障害者 さらに ニュージャージー州在住 ときています  
    If you don't feel better about yourself, maybe you should.    	  （拍手） 自分はマシだと思えるでしょう 自信を持ってください  
  Cliffside Park, New Jersey is my hometown.    	  ニュージャージー州 クリフサイド・パークが地元で  
 I have always loved the fact  that my hood and my affliction share the same initials.    	  本当に嬉しく思っているのは 地元と 私の抱える苦難が 同じイニシャル「C.P.」ということです  
 I also love the fact  that if I wanted to walk from my house to New York City, I could.    	  それと やろうと思えば 自宅から ニューヨーク市まで 歩いて行けるのも最高です  
 A lot of people with CP don't walk,  but my parents didn't believe in "can't."    	  脳性まひがある人は たいていは歩かないのですが 私の両親は そもそも 「できない」ことはないと信じていて  
 My father's mantra was,  "You can do it, yes you can can."    	  父の口癖は 「お前はできる 絶対にデキできる」でした  
   So, if my three older sisters were mopping,  I was mopping.    	   ですから 姉３人が モップがけをしていたら 私もモップがけをし  
 If my three older sisters went to public school,  my parents would sue the school system  and guarantee that I went too,  and if we didn't all get A's,  we all got my mother's slipper.    	  姉たちが公立学校に行けば 両親は 学校制度を訴えてでも 私を公立学校に 行かせようとしたでしょう オールAを取らなければ 全員が母にスリッパで ひっぱたかれました  
   My father taught me how to walk when I was five years old  by placing my heels on his feet  and just walking.    	   ５歳のとき 父が歩き方を教えてくれました 父の足の上に 私のかかとをのせて ただ歩くだけです  
 Another tactic that he used  is he would dangle a dollar bill in front of me and have me chase it.    	  もう１つ 父が使った戦術は 私の前に１ドル札をぶらさげて 追っかけさせることです  
   My inner stripper was very strong.    	   私の 内なるストリッパー精神は とても強くて―  
   No, by the first day of kindergarten,  I was walking like a champ  who had been punched one too many times.    	   幼稚園の初日には 王者の風格で 歩いていました ぼこぼこに殴られた 王者のように  
 Growing up, there were only six Arabs in my town,  and they were all my family.    	  子どもの頃 町には アラブ人は６人だけで それも 全員が私の家族でした  
 Now there are 20 Arabs in town,  and they are still all my family.   I don't think anyone even noticed we weren't Italian.    	  今やアラブ人は 20人になりましたが 全員が私の家族です 私たちがイタリア人でないことに 誰も気付いてないようです  
    This was before 9/11  and before politicians thought it was appropriate  to use "I hate Muslims" as a campaign slogan.    	  （拍手） これは9・11テロ以前の話で 政治家が こぞって 「イスラム教徒は嫌いだ」を 選挙スローガンにする前のことです  
 The people that I grew up with had no problem with my faith.    	  一緒に育ってきた人たちは 私の宗教は気にしていませんでした  
 They did, however, seem very concerned  that I would starve to death during Ramadan.    	  ただ とても心配されたのは ラマダンのとき 私が餓死しないかということでした  
 I would explain to them that I have enough fat  to live off of for three whole months,  so fasting from sunrise to sunset is a piece of cake.    	  いつも言っていたのは 私はたっぷり脂肪があって 丸３ヶ月は 何も食べなくても 平気だから 夜明けから日没までの断食なんて お茶の子さいさいだ ということです  
  I have tap-danced on Broadway.    	  私はブロードウェイで タップダンスを踊ったこともあります  
 Yeah, on Broadway. It's crazy.   My parents couldn't afford physical therapy,  so they sent me to dancing school.    	  そう ブロードウェイです すごいでしょう（拍手） 両親は理学療法の費用を ねん出できず 代わりに 私を ダンススクールに行かせたのです  
 I learned how to dance in heels,  which means I can walk in heels.    	  ヒールでダンスできれば 当然 ヒールで歩けますからね  
 And I'm from Jersey,  and we are really concerned with being chic,  so if my friends wore heels, so did I.    	  私はジャージー出身で 流行に敏感ですので 友だちがヒールを履いていれば 私も履きました  
 And when my friends went and spent their summer vacations  on the Jersey Shore, I did not.    	  友だちが 夏休みを ジャージー海岸で過ごせば 私は 海岸では 過ごしませんでした  
 I spent my summers in a war zone,  because my parents were afraid  that if we didn't go back to Palestine every single summer,  we'd grow up to be Madonna.    	  私が夏を過ごしたのは 紛争地帯です というのも 両親は― もし毎夏 パレスチナに 行かなければ 私たち姉妹は マドンナになってしまう と恐れたからです  
   Summer vacations often consisted of my father trying to heal me,  so I drank deer's milk,  I had hot cups on my back,  I was dunked in the Dead Sea,  and I remember the water burning my eyes  and thinking, "It's working! It's working!"    	   夏休みには たいてい 父が私の病を治そうと奮闘し 私は鹿のミルクを飲み 背中にカッピングをし 死海につかりました 当時 水が目に染みてヒリヒリし 「効いてる 効いてる」と 思ったのを覚えています  
   But one miracle cure we did find was yoga.    	   でも 私たちが見つけた 魔法の治療法は ヨガでした  
 I have to tell you, it's very boring,  but before I did yoga,  I was a stand-up comedian who can't stand up.    	  言っておきますが とても退屈です でも ヨガを始める前は 立っていられない スタンドアップ・コメディアンだった私が  
 And now I can stand on my head.    	  今は 逆立ちも できるようになりました  
 My parents reinforced this notion  that I could do anything,  that no dream was impossible,  and my dream was to be  on the daytime soap opera "General Hospital."    	  両親のお蔭で 私は何でもでき 叶えられない夢はない と確信しました 私の夢は 昼ドラ『ジェネラル・ホスピタル』に 出演することでした  
  I went to college during affirmative action  and got a sweet scholarship to ASU,  Arizona State University,  because I fit every single quota.   I was like the pet lemur of the theater department.    	  差別是正措置の恩恵を受け 大学に進学し アリゾナ州立大学から 結構な奨学金ももらいました 私は 優遇対象の全条件に 当てはまったからです 私は 演劇学部のペット キツネザルのようで  
 Everybody loved me.    	  皆に好かれていました  
 I did all the less-than-intelligent kids' homework,  I got A's in all of my classes,  A's in all of their classes.    	  勉強が苦手な子の宿題も 一手に引き受け 私が オールAだったばかりか 助けてあげた子たちも オールAでした  
 Every time I did a scene from "The Glass Menagerie,"  my professors would weep.    	  私が 『ガラスの動物園』の シーンを演じるたび 教授たちは 涙しました  
 But I never got cast.    	  でも 私が役をもらうことは ありませんでした  
 Finally, my senior year,  ASU decided to do a show called "They Dance Real Slow in Jackson."    	  ついに４年生のとき 大学で 『ジャクソンでは皆 ゆっくり踊る』 という演劇をすることになりました  
 It's a play about a girl with CP.    	  『ジャクソンでは皆 ゆっくり踊る』 という演劇をすることになりました  
 I was a girl with CP.    	  脳性まひの 女の子に関する劇です  
 So I start shouting from the rooftops,  "I'm finally going to get a part!    	  私は まさに 脳性まひの女の子なので もう大騒ぎしました 「ついに私も役がもらえるわ  
 I have cerebral palsy!    	  脳性まひだもの  
 Free at last! Free at last!    	  ついに自由よ ついに自由よ  
 Thank God almighty, I'm free at last!"    	  全能の神よ 私もついに自由です」と  
 I didn't get the part.   Sherry Brown got the part.    	  役はもらえませんでした シェリー・ブラウンが その役をすることになりました  
 I went racing to the head of the theater department  crying hysterically, like someone shot my cat,  to ask her why,  and she said it was because they didn't think I could do the stunts.    	  私は 演劇学部の 学部長のところに駆けつけ 誰かに飼い猫を撃たれたかのように 半狂乱で叫びながら 理由を問い質しました 学部長が言うには 私がスタントをできない と思ったからだと  
 I said, "Excuse me, if I can't do the stunts,  neither can the character."    	  私は食い下がりました 「私ができないんだったら そのキャラクターもできないはずよ」  
    This was a part that I was literally born to play  they gave it to a non-palsy actress.    	  （拍手） 私は この役のために生まれてきた と言っても過言ではないのに その役を 脳性まひでない子が 演じるなんて  
 College was imitating life.    	  大学生活は 人生の縮図でした  
 Hollywood has a sordid history  of casting able-bodied actors to play disabled onscreen.    	  ハリウッドでも 健常者の俳優が 障害者を演じるという 浅ましい歴史が 繰り返されています  
 Upon graduating, I moved back home,  and my first acting gig was as an extra on a daytime soap opera.    	  卒業後 私は地元に戻りました 初めての女優の仕事は 昼ドラのエキストラの役でした  
 My dream was coming true.    	  夢が叶いつつありました  
 And I knew that I would be promoted  from "Diner Diner" to "Wacky Best Friend" in no time.   But instead, I remained a glorified piece of furniture  that you could only recognize from the back of my head,  and it became clear to me  that casting directors  didn't hire fluffy, ethnic, disabled actors.    	  というのも 私は確信していたからです すぐに「食事客 その２」から 「変わり者の親友」に格上げされると でも 実際は 背景の一部のまま 頭の後ろしか 映ることはありませんでした それで分かったのは キャスティング責任者は 地に足のつかない よそ者の障害者なんて使わないのです  
 They only hired perfect people.    	  完ぺきな人たちしか 雇わないんです  
 But there were exceptions to the rule.    	  でも 例外がありました  
 I grew up watching Whoopi Goldberg,  Roseanne Barr, Ellen,  and all of these women had one thing in common:  they were comedians.    	  子どもの頃よく見た ウーピー・ゴールドバーグ ロザンヌ・バーやエレン・デジェネレス これらの女性に 共通していることがあります 皆 コメディアンだったのです  
 So I became a comic.    	  ですから 私も コメディアンになりました  
    My first gig was driving famous comics  from New York City to shows in New Jersey,  and I'll never forget the face of the first comic I ever drove  when he realized that he was speeding down the New Jersey Turnpike  with a chick with CP driving him.    	  （拍手） 初めての仕事は ニューヨーク市の 有名なコメディアンの方々を ニュージャージーに 車でお連れすることでした 最初にお連れしたコメディアンが ニュージャージー高速道路を 脳性まひの小娘の運転で 走っていると気づいたときの  
   I've performed in clubs all over America,  and I've also performed in Arabic in the Middle East,  uncensored and uncovered.   Some people say I'm the first stand-up comic in the Arab world.    	  顔ったら ありませんでした 私は アメリカ全土のクラブで ショーを行い 中東でも アラビア語で行いました いつも通り 歯に衣着せぬ物言いで です 私が アラブ世界初の スタンドアップ・コメディアンという人もいます  
 I never like to claim first,  but I do know that they never heard  that nasty little rumor that women aren't funny,  and they find us hysterical.   In 2003, my brother from another mother and father  Dean Obeidallah and I started  the New York Arab-American Comedy Festival,  now in its 10th year.    	  私が アラブ世界初の スタンドアップ・コメディアンという人もいます 自ら一番を名乗るつもりは ありませんが 持ち上げてくれる人たちは あの噂を 聞いたことがないに違いありません 女性は面白くないとか ヒステリックだとかいう つまらない噂です 2003年に 私の腹心の友である ディーン・オベイダラと 私が立ち上げた― ニューヨーク・アラブ系 米国人コメディーフェスティバルは 今年で10年目を迎えました  
 Our goal was to change the negative image of Arab-Americans in media,  while also reminding casting directors  that South Asian and Arab are not synonymous.    	  私たちの目標は メディアにおけるアラブ系アメリカ人の ネガティブなイメージを 変えることです 同時に キャスティング担当者に 南アジア人とアラブ人は 違うことを教える目的もあります  
   Mainstreaming Arabs was much, much easier  than conquering the challenge against the stigma against disability.    	   アラブ人を「普通」にすることは とっても簡単なことです 障害者に押された 烙印を考えたら 何てことありません  
 My big break came in 2010.    	  私は2010年に ブレイクし  
 I was invited to be a guest on the cable news show  "Countdown with Keith Olbermann."    	  ケーブルテレビの ニュース番組に ゲスト出演しました 『カウントダウン・ウィズ・キース・オルバーマン』です  
 I walked in looking like I was going to the prom,  and they shuffle me into a studio  and seat me on a spinning, rolling chair.    	  まるでプロムに行くような出で立ちで 会場入りすると スタジオに 連れて行かれました コロコロ動くキャスター付きの椅子に 座らされたので  
 So I looked at the stage manager  and I'm like, "Excuse me, can I have another chair?"    	  ディレクターに こう目配せしました 「すみません 別の椅子もらえます？」  
 And she looked at me and she went,  "Five, four, three, two ..."    	  彼女は目が合うと 「５､４､３､２・・・」とカウントを始め  
 And we were live, right?    	  そのまま生放送に入りました  
 So I had to grip onto the anchor's desk  so that I wouldn't roll off the screen during the segment,  and when the interview was over, I was livid.    	  私は 前の机に しがみつかざるを得ませんでした 生放送中に画面から 転がり出て行くなんて ありえませんから インタビューが終わる頃には 私は顔面蒼白でした  
 I had finally gotten my chance and I blew it,  and I knew I would never get invited back.    	  やっと来たチャンスを 台無しにしてしまい もう招待されることは ないだろうと思いました  
 But not only did Mr. Olbermann invite me back,  he made me a full-time contributor,  and he taped down my chair.    	  でも オルバーマン氏は また招待してくれただけでなく レギュラー出演までさせてくれ 椅子も固定してくれました  
    One fun fact I learned while on the air with Keith Olbermann  was that humans on the Internet are scumbags.    	  （拍手） キース・オルバーマンと 一緒に番組をして 面白いことを学びました ネット上では 人間はクズになるということです  
 People say children are cruel,  but I was never made fun of as a child or an adult.    	  子どもは残酷だと言いますが 私は 子どものころから一度も からかわれたことは ありません  
 Suddenly, my disability on the world wide web is fair game.    	  でも ネット上では 私の障害が かっこうの餌食になりました  
 I would look at clips online and see comments like,  "Yo, why's she tweakin'?"    	  オンラインで ビデオクリップがあれば こんなコメントが書かれています 「おい こいつはヤク中か？」  
 "Yo, is she retarded?"    	  「おい こいつは知恵遅れか？」  
 And my favorite, "Poor Gumby-mouth terrorist.    	  お気に入りは 「ガンビー人形の口したテロリストだ  
 What does she suffer from?    	  かわいそう なぜ苦しんでいるの？  
 We should really pray for her."    	  皆さん 彼女のために祈りましょう」  
 One commenter even suggested that I add my disability to my credits:  screenwriter, comedian, palsy.    	  こんな提案もありました 私の経歴に 障害のことも 追加したらどうかというのです 「脚本家､コメディアン､脳性まひ」とね  
 Disability is as visual as race.    	  障害は 肌の色と同じくらい 見てすぐ分かるものです  
 If a wheelchair user can't play Beyoncé,  then Beyoncé can't play a wheelchair user.    	  車いすの人が ビヨンセの真似ができないなら ビヨンセは 車いすの人の真似をできません  
 The disabled are the largest —  Yeah, clap for that, man. Come on.    	  障害者は 最大の― はい ここで拍手をお願いしますよ  
   People with disabilities are the largest minority in the world,  and we are the most underrepresented in entertainment.    	  （拍手） 障害のある人たちは 世界最大のマイノリティーですが エンターテイメント界では 一番 それが反映されていません エンターテイメント界では 一番 それが反映されていません  
 The doctors said that I wouldn't walk,  but I am here in front of you.    	  お医者さんは 私は歩けないと言ったけれど 私は こうして 皆さんの前にいます  
 However, if I grew up with social media,  I don't think I would be.    	  でも ソーシャルメディアの時代に 育っていたら きっと こうは行かなかったでしょう  
 I hope that together,  we can create more positive images  of disability in the media and in everyday life.    	  皆さんと一緒に メディアや日々の生活における 障害者のイメージを もっと良くして行ければと思います  
 Perhaps if there were more positive images,  it would foster less hate on the Internet.    	  ポジティブなイメージがあれば ひょっとしたら ネット上で憎悪の対象とされることも 減るかもしれません  
 Or maybe not.    	  難しいでしょうかね  
 Maybe it still takes a village to teach our children well.    	  一人の子どもを育てるには 村全体が協力しなければならない でしょうね  
 My crooked journey has taken me to some very spectacular places.    	  今まで 山あり谷ありの道を 歩んできたお蔭で 素敵な経験ができました  
 I got to walk the red carpet  flanked by soap diva Susan Lucci  and the iconic Loreen Arbus.    	  レッドカーペットも歩きました しかも 昼ドラ女王 スーザン・ルッチ 伝説のロレイン・アーバスと共にです  
 I got to act in a movie with Adam Sandler  and work with my idol, the amazing Dave Matthews.    	  アダム・サンドラーと 映画で共演できましたし 私のアイドルの― 素晴らしいデイヴ・マシューズとも 共演しました  
 I toured the world as a headliner on Arabs Gone Wild.    	  立役者として 世界ツアー 『アラブ・ゴーン・ワイルド』も敢行し  
 I was a delegate representing the great state of New Jersey  at the 2008 DNC.    	  2008年民主党全国委員会では ニュージャージー州の代表を 務めました ニュージャージー州の代表を 務めました  
 And I founded Maysoon's Kids,  a charity that hopes to give Palestinian refugee children  a sliver of the chance my parents gave me.    	  「メイスーンの子どもたち」という 慈善団体を設立し パレスチナの難民の子どもたちに 私の両親がくれたような チャンスを与える活動をしています  
 But the one moment that stands out the most  was when I got -- before this moment --     But the one moment that stands out the most  was when I got to perform  for the man who floats like a butterfly  and stings like a bee,  has Parkinson's and shakes just like me,  Muhammad Ali.    	  でも これまでで 一番素晴らしい瞬間というのは もちろん このステージを除いてですが― （拍手）― 一番素晴らしい瞬間は 蝶のように舞い 蜂のようにさす人のために ショーをしたときです そう パーキンソン病で 私と同じように震える― モハメド・アリです  
     It was the only time that my father ever saw me perform live,  and I dedicate this talk to his memory.    	  （拍手） あのときだけは 私の父もライブショーを 見に来てくれました 私は このトークを 父の思い出に捧げます  
  My name is Maysoon Zayid,  and if I can can, you can can.    	  私は メイスーン・ザイード 私が デキできるなら あなたも デキできる  
 I would like to talk to you about a story  about a small town kid.    	  これから話す話は ある村の少年についてです  
 I don't know his name, but I do know his story.    	  名前は知りませんが 彼の話はできます  
 He lives in a small village in southern Somalia.    	  南ソマリアの小さな村に住んでいました  
 His village is near Mogadishu.    	  首都モガディシュの近くです  
 Drought drives the small village into poverty  and to the brink of starvation.    	  干ばつの影響でその小さな村は貧困に追いやられ 饑餓の窮地に陥ったのです  
 With nothing left for him there,  he leaves for the big city, in this case, Mogadishu, the capital of Somalia.    	  彼には何も残されていなかったので 彼はソマリアの都市のモガディシュへと  
 When he arrives, there are no opportunities,  no jobs, no way forward.    	  向かいました 彼がそこに到着した時 何のチャンスもなく 仕事もなければ希望もありませんでした  
 He ends up living in a tent city  on the outskirts of Mogadishu.    	  結局 彼はモガディシュの郊外にある テント村で生活を始めました  
 Maybe a year passes, nothing.    	  一年が経ちましたが　何も変化はありませんでした  
 One day, he's approached by a gentleman  who offers to take him to lunch,  then to dinner, to breakfast.    	  ある日 とある紳士が彼に近づいてきて 昼食　そして　夕食 更には朝食を 奢ると言いました  
 He meets this dynamic group of people,  and they give him a break.    	  この活動的なグループとの出会いが 彼の分岐点となりました  
 He's given a bit of money  to buy himself some new clothes,  money to send back home to his family.    	  彼は新しい服を買い 家族に仕送りするために 少しお金をもらいました  
 He is introduced to this young woman.    	  次に若い女性を紹介されました  
 He eventually gets married.    	  そして 結婚しました  
 He starts this new life.    	  新しい生活が始まったのです  
 He has a purpose in life.    	  生きる目的を見つけました  
 One beautiful day in Mogadishu,  under an azure blue sky,  a car bomb goes off.    	  素晴らしい快晴の日 真っ青なモガディシュの空の下 自動車爆弾が爆発しました  
 That small town kid with the big city dreams  was the suicide bomber,  and that dynamic group of people  were al Shabaab, a terrorist organization  linked to al Qaeda.    	  大きな夢を抱いて都市に来た小さな街の少年は 自爆テロ犯となったのです そしてあの活動的なグループの人々は アル・シャバーブというテロ集団だったのです アルカイダと繋がっていました  
 So how does the story of a small town kid  just trying to make it big in the city  end up with him blowing himself up?    	  どうして 小さな村の少年は 都市で成功したかっただけなのに 自爆テロという結果になったのでしょうか？  
 He was waiting.    	  彼は待っていました  
 He was waiting for an opportunity,  waiting to begin his future,  waiting for a way forward,  and this was the first thing that came along.    	  ただただ チャンスを待ち望んでいました 未来に希望を持てる時を 前に進むチャンスを… これが最初のチャンスでした  
 This was the first thing that pulled him out  of what we call waithood.    	  初めて彼を　待ち続けることから 動かしたのです  
 in urban centers around the world.    	  この少年のような話は世界の都市部で 繰り返されています  
 It is the story of the disenfranchised, unemployed urban youth  who sparks riots in Johannesburg,  sparks riots in London,  who reaches out for something other than waithood.    	  これは当てのない生活を脱却したいと言う一心で ヨハネスブルグでの暴動や ロンドンでの暴動を引き起こした 公民権を剥奪され 仕事もない都心部に住む若い人々の話です  
 For young people, the promise of the city,  the big city dream is that of opportunity,  of jobs, of wealth,  but young people are not sharing in the prosperity of their cities.    	  若い人々にとって 都市というのは 仕事、富が得られるチャンスがある 場所であります しかし 大都市の豊かさを若者は享受していません  
 Often it's youth who suffer from the highest unemployment rates.    	  多くの場合 高い失業率に悩まされているのは若者です  
 By 2030, three out of five people living in cities  will be under the age of 18.    	  2030年までに 都市に住む５人のうち３人が 18歳未満になるそうです  
 If we do not include young people  if we do not provide them opportunities,  the story of waithood,  the gateway to terrorism, to violence, to gangs,  will be the story of cities 2.0.    	  都市の発展に 若者を参加させなければ 彼らにチャンスを与えなければ この当ての無い若者が テロや暴力 ギャングに手を染めてしまうことが 将来の都市像になってしまいます  
 And in my city of birth, Mogadishu,  70 percent of young people suffer from unemployment.    	  私の故郷のモガデシュでは 70％の若者が失業に苦しんでいます  
 70 percent don't work,  don't go to school.    	  70％が働けていないのです 学校にも行きません  
 They pretty much do nothing.    	  何もすることがないのです  
 I went back to Mogadishu last month,  and I went to visit Madina Hospital,  the hospital I was born in.    	  先月 故郷に帰った時ー 私が産まれた マディナ病院を訪れました 弾丸だらけの病院の前に立って  
 I remember standing in front of that  bullet-ridden hospital thinking,  what if I had never left?    	  ここを去らなかったらどうなっていただろう？ 或いは 先ほどの当ての無い若者のように  
 What if I had been forced into that same state of waithood?    	  ならざるを得なかったらどうなっていただろう と考えていました  
 Would I have become a terrorist?    	  テロリストになっていたかもしれない  
 I'm not really sure about the answer.    	  どうなっているかは分かりません  
 My reason for being in Mogadishu that month was actually to host  a youth leadership and entrepreneurship summit.    	  その時に　モガディシュに行った理由は 若きリーダーと起業家のサミットを  
 I brought together about 90 young Somali leaders.    	  主催するためでした 約90人のソマリア人リーダーを集め  
 We sat down and brainstormed on solutions  to the biggest challenges facing their city.    	  彼らの町が直面している課題について みんなで話し合いました  
 One of the young men in the room was Aden.    	  ここに来ていた一人の男性アデンは  
 He went to university in Mogadishu, graduated.    	  モガディシュにある大学を卒業しました  
 There were no jobs, no opportunities.    	  しかし 仕事やチャンスはありませんでした  
 I remember him telling me,  because he was a college graduate,  unemployed, frustrated,  that he was the perfect target for al Shabaab  and other terrorist organizations, to be recruited.    	  私は彼が 大卒であるのにもかかわらず仕事がなく ストレスを感じているため アル・シャバーブや他のテロ集団が勧誘する 恰好の標的であると 言っているのを覚えています  
 They sought people like him out.    	  テロリストは彼のような人を探していました  
 But his story takes a different route.    	  しかし 彼の話は少し違います  
 In Mogadishu, the biggest barrier  to getting from point A to point B are the roads.    	  モガディシュは 交通システムに 大きな課題を抱えていました  
 Twenty-three years of civil war  have completely destroyed the road system,  and a motorbike can be the easiest way  to get around.    	  23年にも及ぶ内戦は 交通システムを完全に破壊しました バイクが一番便利な 交通手段なのです  
 Aden saw an opportunity and seized it.    	  アダンは そこに勝機を見いだしました  
 He started a motorbike company.    	  彼はバイク会社を設立したのです  
 He began renting out motorbikes  to local residents who couldn't normally afford them.    	  バイクのレンタルを始めました 普通は買えない地元の人向けです  
 He bought 10 bikes, with the help  of family and friends,  and his dream is to eventually expand  to several hundred within the next three years.    	  まず 彼は家族や友人の助けを借りて 10台のバイクを買いました そして ここ３年間で 数百台にまで増やす計画です  
 How is this story different?    	  最初の話とどう違いますか？  
 What makes his story different?    	  なぜ彼の話は違うのでしょうか？  
 I believe it is his ability to identify  and seize a new opportunity.    	  その理由は彼は新しいチャンスを見つけ それを 掴む能力があったからです  
 It's entrepreneurship,  and I believe entrepreneurship can be  the most powerful tool against waithood.    	  これは起業家精神です 私は起業家精神こそ 待ち続けることに対抗する一番強い力だと信じています  
 It empowers young people  to be the creators of the very economic opportunities  they are so desperately seeking.    	  この精神が まさに若者達が求めていた雇用機会を自分達で創出しようと 彼らを駆り立てます  
 And you can train young people to be entrepreneurs.    	  そして 訓練することにより若者は起業家になれます  
 I want to talk to you about a young man  who attended one of my meetings,  Mohamed Mohamoud, a florist.    	  私のある会合に参加していた もう一人の男性の話があります 花屋のモハメド・モハモウドです  
 at the summit in entrepreneurship  and how to be innovative  and how to create a culture of entrepreneurship.    	  彼は起業家サミットで 若者にどうやって革新を起こすのか 起業家精神を養うのかについての  
 He's actually the first florist Mogadishu has seen  in over 22 years,  and until recently, until Mohamed came along,  if you wanted flowers at your wedding,  you used plastic bouquets  shipped from abroad.    	  訓練を手助けしてくれました 彼は 22年に及ぶ内戦後 初の花屋です モハメドが最近花屋になるまでは もし結婚式で花が必要だったら 外国から輸入された 造花のブーケを使用していました  
 If you asked someone,  "When was the last time you saw fresh flowers?"    	  誰かに聞いてみて下さい 「本物の花を見たのはいつですか？」と  
 for many who grew up under civil war,  the answer would be, "Never."    	  内戦の中 育った多くの人々にとって 答えははきっと 「見たことがない」です  
 So Mohamed saw an opportunity.    	  モハメドは ここにチャンスを見つけだしたのです  
 He started a landscaping and design floral company.    	  造園とフラワーデザインの会社を始めました  
 He created a farm right outside of Mogadishu,  and started growing tulips and lilies,  which he said could survive the harsh Mogadishu climate.    	  モガディシュの郊外に農園を作り チューリップやユリを育て始めました それらの花は モガディシュの厳しい天候の中でも  
 And he began delivering flowers to weddings,  creating gardens at homes  and businesses around the city,  and he's now working on creating  Mogadishu's first public park in 22 years.    	  育つことができる と彼は言いました 結婚式用の花の配達を始め 庭の設計をし 街中でビジネスを始めたのです 今では モガディシュ初の 公園の設計に取り組んでいます  
 There's no public park in Mogadishu.    	  モガディシュには 22年間 公園はありませんでした  
 He wants to create a space where families, young people, can come together,  and, as he says, smell the proverbial roses.    	  彼は 家族や若い人たちが集まり 普段の日常にある幸福を感じることができる  
 And he doesn't grow roses because  they use too much water, by the way.    	  薔薇の花に満ちた空間をつくりたいというのです ちなみに 彼は 水を大量に必要とするバラは育てません  
 So the first step is to inspire young people,  and in that room, Mohamed's presence  had a really profound impact on the youth in that room.    	  さて まず最初は 若者にやる気を出させることからです モハメドの存在は会合に参加していた若者たちに 実に大きな影響を与えました  
 They had never really thought about starting up a business.    	  若者たちはビジネスを始めようと 思ったことが一度もありませんでした  
 They've thought about working for an NGO,  working for the government,  but his story, his innovation,  really had a strong impact on them.    	  思いついたことといえば NGOで働くことや 政府のために働くことでした しかし 彼の話や彼の革新は 彼らに大きな衝撃を与えたのです  
 He forced them to look at their city  as a place of opportunity.    	  若者達は 自分たちの住む街を チャンスに溢れる場所と考えるようになったのです  
 He empowered them to believe that they could be entrepreneurs,  that they could be change makers.    	  誰もが起業することができ 変化を起こすことができると自信を与えました  
 By the end of the day, they were coming up  to some of the biggest challenges facing their city.    	  その日の終わりには 彼らの町が直面している いくつかの大きな課題に対する  
 They came up with entrepreneurial solutions  to local problems.    	  革新的な解決策にたどり着きました 彼等は 地域が抱える問題に対して 起業という解決策を見つけたのです  
 So inspiring young people  and creating a culture of entrepreneurship  is a really great step,  but young people need capital  to make their ideas a reality.    	  若い人々を鼓舞し 起業家文化を創ることは 実に素晴らしい一歩です ただ 若者に必要なのは アイデアを実現させる資本なのです  
 They need expertise and mentorship  to guide them in developing and launching their businesses.    	  そして開発・起業する手助けをしてくれる 専門家や相談できる人などが必要なのです  
 Connect young people with the resources they need,  provide them the support they need to go from ideation to creation,  and you will create catalysts for urban growth.    	  若者を必要な資源と繋ぎ アイディアを形にするサポートを提供する そうすることは都市の発展のきっかけとなります  
 For me, entrepreneurship is more than just  starting up a business.    	  私にとって起業家精神とは ビジネスを始めることだけではありません  
 It's about creating a social impact.    	  社会に大きな影響を与えることです  
 Mohamed is not simply selling flowers.    	  モハメドは ただ花を売っているだけではありません  
 I believe he is selling hope.    	  彼は同時に人々に希望を与えているのです  
 His Peace Park, and that's what he calls it,  when it's created, will actually transform  the way people see their city.    	  平和公園 と彼が名付けた公園が できた暁には 人々の街の見方を変えるでしょう  
 Aden hired street kids to help rent out  and maintain those bikes for him.    	  アデンは ストリートキッズを雇い バイクの貸し出しや修理をさせています  
 He gave them the opportunity to escape  the paralysis of waithood. These young entrepreneurs are having  a tremendous impact in their cities.    	  彼らに当てのない停滞状態から 抜け出す機会を与えました こうした若き起業家達は 彼らの街に とてつもなく大きい影響を与えています  
 So my suggestion is,  turn youth into entrepreneurs, incubate and nurture their inherent innovation,  and you will have more stories of flowers and Peace Parks  than of car bombs and waithood.    	  そこで私の提案は 若者を起業家にし 彼らが持っている革新的なアイデアを 仕事にし　育成するよう促すことです そうすることで 自爆テロや当てのない貧しい若者の話でなく  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 I was about 10 years old  on a camping trip with my dad  in the Adirondack Mountains, a wilderness area  in the northern part of New York State.    	  10歳の時 父とキャンプに行きました 行き先は 手付かずの自然が広がる NY州北部のアディロンダック山脈でした  
 It was a beautiful day.    	  その日は素晴らしい日で  
 The forest was sparkling.    	  森はキラキラ光り  
 The sun made the leaves glow like stained glass,  and if it weren't for the path we were following,  we could almost pretend we were  the first human beings to ever walk that land.    	  太陽で木の葉はステンドグラスの様に輝き 歩み行く道がなければ その土地に足を踏み入れたのは 自分達が最初だと思えるほどでした  
 We got to our campsite.    	  キャンプ場では  
 It was a lean-to on a bluff  looking over a crystal, beautiful lake,  when I discovered a horror.    	  切り立った崖の上に簡素な小屋があり 澄んだ美しい湖を見渡せましたが そこでぞっとする光景を目の当たりにしました  
 Behind the lean-to was a dump,  maybe 40 feet square  with rotting apple cores  and balled-up aluminum foil,  and a dead sneaker.    	  小屋の後ろはゴミ捨て場になっており 12㎡くらいの広さだったでしょうか 腐ったリンゴの芯 丸められたアルミフォイルや 履かれなくなったスニーカーの片方が捨てられていました  
 And I was astonished,  I was very angry, and I was deeply confused.    	  私は非常に驚き とても腹立たしくなり 深く感情が混乱しました  
 The campers who were too lazy  to take out what they had brought in,  who did they think would clean up after them?    	  キャンプ場に来た人達が怠慢で 持参品を持ち帰らなかったら 誰が代わりに清掃してくれると思ったのでしょうか？  
 That question stayed with me,  and it simplified a little.    	  そんな疑問が頭に残りました 疑問はさらにシンブルな問いとなりました  
 Who cleans up after us?    	  誰が私たちの代わりに清掃してくれるのでしょうか  
 However you configure  or wherever you place the us,  who cleans up after us in Istanbul?    	  「私たち」の定義がどうであれ 「私たち」がどこにいようとも 私たちの代わりに誰がイスタンブールで清掃をしているのでしょうか  
 Who cleans up after us in Rio  or in Paris or in London?    	  リオデジャネイロでは パリやロンドンでは 誰が清掃をしているのでしょうか  
 Here in New York,  the Department of Sanitation cleans up after us,  to the tune of 11,000 tons of garbage  and 2,000 tons of recyclables every day.    	  ここ ニューヨークでは 衛生局の人達が私たちの代わりに清掃をしています 1万1千トンもの大量のゴミと 2千トンの資源ごみを毎日回収しています  
 I wanted to get to know them as individuals.    	  私は彼らについて知りたいと思いました  
 I wanted to understand who takes the job.    	  清掃をしている人達を理解したいと思ったのです  
 What's it like to wear the uniform  and bear that burden?    	  衛生局の制服を着て ゴミを回収するのはどのような感じなのでしょうか  
 So I started a research project with them.    	  私は 清掃作業員と一緒に調査を始めました  
 I rode in the trucks and walked the routes  and interviewed people in offices and facilities  all over the city,  and I learned a lot,  but I was still an outsider.    	  私は清掃トラックに同乗し 回収ルートを歩き 町中のオフィス 施設で 人々にインタビューをしました 私は多くのことを学びましたが それでもまだ部外者にしか過ぎません  
 I needed to go deeper.    	  そこでもっと深く入り込みたいと思い  
 So I took the job as a sanitation worker.    	  私は清掃職員の仕事に就きました  
 I didn't just ride in the trucks now. I drove the trucks.    	  ただトラックに同乗するだけではなく 今ではトラックを運転します  
 And I operated the mechanical brooms and I plowed the snow.    	  清掃機も操作しますし 除雪もしました  
 It was a remarkable privilege  and an amazing education.    	  私にとってはかけがえのない体験でしたし 多くのことを学ぶ機会となりました  
 Everyone asks about the smell.    	  誰もがごみの臭いについて質問します  
 It's there, but it's not as prevalent as you think,  and on days when it is really bad,  you get used to it rather quickly.    	  もちろん臭いはありますが 皆さんが思うほどのものではありません 臭いが本当にひどい時でも 割とすぐに慣れます  
 The weight takes a long time to get used to.    	  慣れるのに時間がかかるのはゴミの重さです  
 I knew people who were several years on the job  whose bodies were still adjusting to the burden  of bearing on your body  tons of trash every week.    	  清掃員の職に就いて数年はたっている人達を知っていますが 彼らは 未だにその負荷に苦戦しています 体で支えて 毎週何トンものゴミを持ち運ぶ負担に  
 Then there's the danger.    	  さらに そこには危険も伴います  
 According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics,  sanitation work is one of the 10 most dangerous  occupations in the country,  and I learned why.    	  労働局の統計によると 清掃作業はアメリカで最も危険な職業の トップ１０の中に入っており 私もその理由が分かりました  
 You're in and out of traffic all day,  and it's zooming around you.    	  清掃員はものすごいスピードで駆け抜ける交通の中へ 一日中出入りしています  
 It just wants to get past you, so it's often  the motorist is not paying attention.    	  清掃車を通り越そうとする時によくあることですが 運転手は清掃員には注意を払ってくれません  
 That's really bad for the worker.    	  これは彼らにとって非常に危険です  
 And then the garbage itself is full of hazards  that often fly back out of the truck  and do terrible harm.    	  ゴミ自体も危険の塊で トラックの後ろへ飛び出て ひどい危害が及ぶこともあります  
 I also learned about the relentlessness of trash.    	  私は ゴミは終わりがないことも知りました  
 When you step off the curb  and you see a city from behind a truck,  you come to understand that trash  is like a force of nature unto itself.    	  縁石から降りて トラックを背にして街を見ると ゴミはそれ自体 自然の力のようだと 思うようになります  
 It never stops coming.    	  ゴミには一向に終わりがないのです  
 It's also like a form of respiration or circulation.    	  まるで呼吸や血の循環のように  
 It must always be in motion.    	  ゴミは常に動いているにちがいありません  
 And then there's the stigma.    	  また 清掃員は侮辱も受けます  
 You put on the uniform, and you become invisible  until someone is upset with you for whatever reason  like you've blocked traffic with your truck,  or you're taking a break too close to their home,  or you're drinking coffee in their diner,  and they will come and scorn you,  and tell you that they don't want you anywhere near them.    	  清掃員の制服を着て 特に意識されない存在となるのは 誰かが何らかの理由で彼らに腹を立てるまでです 例えば 清掃車が道をふさいでいたり 清掃員が他人の家に近すぎる場所で休憩をしているとか レストランでコーヒーを飲んでいても 清掃員のところにやって来て 罵ったり 近くに寄らないで欲しいと言う人がいるのです  
 I find the stigma especially ironic,  because I strongly believe that sanitation workers  are the most important labor force  on the streets of the city, for three reasons.    	  このような侮辱は特に皮肉なことだと思います というのも 強く思うこととして 清掃作業員は 道路における最も重要な労働力だという事です その理由は３つあります  
 They are the first guardians of public health.    	  清掃作業員は公衆衛生を第一線で守っています  
 If they're not taking away trash  efficiently and effectively every day,  it starts to spill out of its containments,  and the dangers inherent to it threaten us in very real ways.    	  清掃作業員がゴミを毎日 効率的 効果的に回収しなければ ゴミ箱はあふれ始め それが原因で引き起こさせる危険に 実際に脅かされることになります  
 Diseases we've had in check for decades and centuries  burst forth again and start to harm us.    	  何十年も何世紀も抑制されていた病気が 再び猛威を振るうようになります  
 The economy needs them.    	  経済的に見ても清掃作業員は必要です  
 If we can't throw out the old stuff,  we have no room for the new stuff,  so then the engines of the economy  start to sputter when consumption is compromised.    	  古くなった物を捨てることができなければ 新しい物を買う事が出来ません そうなると 消費が落ち込み 経済が回らなくなってしまいます  
 I'm not advocating capitalism, I'm just pointing out their relationship.    	  私は資本主義的観点から述べているのではなく その関係性に着目してほしいのです  
 And then there's what I call  our average, necessary quotidian velocity.    	  それから いわゆる 平均的で 必要な日々のスピードというものがあります  
 By that I simply mean  how fast we're used to moving  in the contemporary day and age.    	  簡単に言うと この現代において いかに早く動くことに 慣れているかということです  
 We usually don't care for, repair, clean, carry around our coffee cup, our shopping bag,  our bottle of water.    	  私たちは普段コーヒーカップ 買い物袋や ペットボトルを気にかけて 修理したり 洗ったり  
 We use them, we throw them out, we forget about them,  because we know there's a workforce  on the other side that's going to take it all away.    	  持ち歩いたりしません それらを使ったら 捨てるので その存在を忘れます というのも 私達は 掃除をしてくれる人が 別にいることがわかっているからです  
 So I want to suggest today a couple of ways  to think about sanitation that will perhaps help  ameliorate the stigma and bring them into this conversation  of how to craft a city that is sustainable and humane.    	  そこで今日は 清掃に対する 考え方をいくつか提案したいと思います それらが この問題の改善につながり 持続可能で人間らしい街の作り方の話し合いに 役に立つでしょう  
 Their work, I think, is kind of liturgical.    	  清掃員の仕事はある意味 儀式のようなものだと思います  
 They're on the streets every day, rhythmically.    	  彼らは 毎日決まった時間に街に出ます  
 They wear a uniform in many cities.    	  多くの街で 彼らは制服を着用します  
 You know when to expect them.    	  私達はいつ彼らが来るのか把握できます  
 And their work lets us do our work.    	  彼らの仕事のおかけで 私達は自分の仕事ができます  
 They are almost a form of reassurance.    	  彼らは安心させてくれる存在と言ってもいいでしょう  
 The flow that they maintain  keeps us safe from ourselves,  from our own dross, our cast-offs,  and that flow must be maintained always  no matter what.    	  彼らの一連の作業で 私達自身や 街のゴミ 捨てられた物から 私達は身を守られます そして その流れは 常に 何があっても 守らなければなりません  
 On the day after September 11 in 2001,  I heard the growl of a sanitation truck on the street,  and I grabbed my infant son and I ran downstairs  and there was a man doing his paper recycling route  like he did every Wednesday.    	  2001年9月11日 あの日に 私は街で清掃車の音を耳にし 幼い息子を抱き 急いで階段を下りたところ ある男性が紙の回収をしていました 毎週水曜日に彼がやっていることです  
 And I tried to thank him for doing his work  on that day of all days,  but I started to cry.    	  あの日に一日中 仕事をしてくれていることに 感謝しようとしました でも 涙が出てきたのです  
 And he looked at me,  and he just nodded, and he said,  "We're going to be okay.    	  すると その人は私を見て うなずいて こう言いました 「大丈夫だよ  
 We're going to be okay."    	  きっと大丈夫だよ」  
 It was a little while later that I started  my research with sanitation,  and I met that man again.    	  その少し後に 私は清掃のリサーチを 始めました そして 私は再びあの時の清掃員にお会いしました  
 His name is Paulie, and we worked together many times,  and we became good friends.    	  彼はポーリーという名前で 私達は何度も一緒に仕事をし 良き友人になりました  
 I want to believe that Paulie was right.    	  私はポーリーの言ったことが正しいと信じたいと思います  
 But in our effort to reconfigure  how we as a species exist on this planet,  we must include and take account of  all the costs, including the very real human cost  of the labor.    	  大丈夫だよ という事を しかし この地球上で生きていく種として 私達が生き方を再設計するためには 清掃員が仕事をする上で被る犠牲など あらゆるコストを  
 And we also would be well informed  to reach out to the people who do that work  and get their expertise  on how do we think about,  how do we create systems around sustainability  that perhaps take us from curbside recycling,  which is a remarkable success across 40 years,  across the United States and countries around the world,  and lift us up to a broader horizon  where we're looking at other forms of waste    	  考慮しなければなりません また 私達は清掃する人と触れ合う事で 持続可能性なシステムをどのように考え どのように作ればよいのか 専門的な意見を聞くことで 多くの情報が得られるでしょう 道端で資源ゴミを回収する方法は アメリカだけでなく世界中で 40年にわたり 素晴らしい成果を上げてきましたが 製造の過程で または原材料から 排出されるゴミが削減されるような  
 that could be lessened  from manufacturing and industrial sources.    	  今までとは違うタイプの新たな次元を 見ることができるかもしれません  
 Municipal waste, what we think of when we talk about garbage,  accounts for three percent of the nation's waste stream.    	  ゴミというと 町の生活ごみを思い浮かべますが それらは国のゴミの３％に相当します  
 It's a remarkable statistic.    	  見過ごせない数字です  
 So in the flow of your days,  in the flow of your lives,  next time you see someone whose job is  to clean up after you,  take a moment to acknowledge them.    	  皆さんが一日過ごす中で 人生の中で 今度 皆さんの代わりに 清掃をしてくれる人を見かけたら 一瞬立ち止まって その存在を確認してください  
 Take a moment to say thank you.    	  一瞬の時間をとって お礼をいってください  
 My work focuses on the connection of  both thinking about our community life  being part of the environment  local conditions and traditions.    	  私が建築設計で重視するのは “つながり”です 地域生活が 環境の一部となり 地域生活が 環境の一部となり その環境で 地域の状況や伝統をもとに  
 Today I brought two recent projects  Both projects are in emerging countries,  one in Ethiopia and another one in Tunisia.    	  今日 この例として ２つのプロジェクトを ご紹介します いずれも 新興国におけるもので １つはエチオピア もう１つはチュニジアです  
 And also they have in common  that the different analyses from different perspectives  becomes an essential part of the final piece of architecture.    	  共通しているのは 様々な観点から重ねた分析が 完成した建築物の 基礎となっていることです  
 The first example started with an invitation  to design a multistory shopping mall  in Ethiopia's capital city Addis Ababa.    	  １つ目のプロジェクトは ある依頼から始まりました 高層ショッピングモールの設計で 場所はエチオピアの首都 アディスアベバでした  
 And this is the type of building  we were shown as an example, to my team and myself,  of what we had to design.    	  私たちは この写真を見せられて “このようなビルを設計してほしい” と言われました “このようなビルを設計してほしい” と言われました  
 At first, the first thing I thought was,  I want to run away.    	  私が最初に思ったのは “逃げ出したい”ということ  
   After seeing a few of these buildings --  there are many in the city --  we realized that they have three very big points.    	   市内には このようなビルが 多かったのですが いくつか見ているうちに ３つのとても重大なことに 気付きました  
 First, these buildings, they are almost empty  because they have very large shops  where people cannot afford to buy things.    	  まず これらのビルは さびれています 立派な大型店が 入っていますが みんな そんなに 物を買う余裕はないのです  
 Second, they need tons of energy to perform  because of the skin treatment with glass  that creates heat in the inside,  and then you need a lot of cooling.    	  次に ビルを維持するのに かなりのエネルギーが必要です 外壁がガラス張りで ビル内が暑くなってしまうので かなりの空調が 必要になるのです  
 In a city where this shouldn't happen  because they have really mild weather  that ranges from 20 to 25 degrees the whole year.    	  この街ではそんなに空調は 必要ないはずです アディスアベバは とても温暖な気候で 一年中 気温も 20～25度くらいですから  
 And third is that their image has nothing to do  with Africa and with Ethiopia.    	  そして最後に ビルの外観から来る印象は アフリカとも エチオピアとも 結びつきません  
 It is a pity in a place that has such rich culture and traditions.    	  せっかく豊かな文化や伝統があるのに 残念なことです  
 Also during our first visit to Ethiopia,  I was really captivated by the old merkato  that is this open-air structure  where thousands of people, they go and buy things  every day from small vendors.    	  エチオピアに 初めて訪問したとき メルカートという 昔からの市場に魅了されました オープンエアになっていて 何千人もの人が 日々行き来して 小さな露店から 物を買っているのです  
 And also it has this idea of the public space  that uses the outdoors to create activity.    	  ここにあるのは 活動を生み出す 屋外の公共スペースです  
 So I thought, this is what I really want to design,  not a shopping mall.    	  これこそ 私が設計したいものだと 思いました ショッピングモールではないんです  
 But the question was how we could do a multistory,  contemporary building with these principles.    	  ただ問題なのは 高層の近代的ビルを どうやって これにマッチさせるかでした  
 The next challenge was when we looked at the site,  that is, in a really growing area of the city,  where most of these buildings that you see in the image,  they were not there.    	  次の課題は 建設予定地にありました 市内でも これから 大きな成長をする地区で まだ さっき写真で ご覧いただいたような ビルの姿はありませんでした  
 And it's also between two parallel streets  that don't have any connection for hundreds of meters.    	  また その土地は 並走する道路に挟まれているものの 何百メートルも 通り抜けができなくなっています  
 So the first thing we did was to create a connection  between these two streets,  putting all the entrances of the building.    	  ですから まず最初にしたのは その２つの道路を つなぐことでした ビルの入口を そのように設置したのです  
 And this extends with an inclined atrium  that creates an open-air space in the building  that self-protects itself with its own shape  from the sun and the rain.    	  これは 斜めに伸びる吹き抜けにつながり ビル内に オープンエアの空間を 作ることにより 太陽と雨から ビルを守る構造になっています 太陽と雨から ビルを守る構造になっています  
 And around this void  we placed this idea of the market with small shops,  that change in each floor because of the shape of the void.    	  そして この吹き抜けのまわりを 小さなお店が集まった マーケットのようにしました 吹き抜けが斜めになっていることで 各階にも変化ができました  
 I also thought, how to close the building?    	  どうやってビルを囲むか についても考え  
 And I really wanted to find a solution  that would respond to the local climate conditions.    	  解決策を見つけたい と思っていました 地元の気候条件に あった解決策です  
 And I started thinking about the textile  like a shell made of concrete  with perforations that would let the air in,  and also the light, but in a filtered way.    	  そこで思いついたのが “織物”です コンクリート製の外壁に 穴が開いていて 空気や 光を適度に 取り込めるようにしました  
 And then the inspiration came from these beautiful patterns of the Ethiopian women's dresses.    	  エチオピアの女性が着るドレスの 美しい模様にもヒントを得ました  
 That they have fractal geometry properties  and this helped me to shape the whole facade.    	  それは フラクタル幾何学のような形で 建物全体の外壁のデザイン設計に 使いました  
 And we are building that  with these small prefabricated pieces  that are the windows that let the air and the light  in a controlled way inside the building.    	  このビルを建てるにあたり こうした小さな プレハブの部材で 窓を作って ビル内に 空気や光を 適度に入れるようにしました  
 And this is complemented by these small colored glasses  that use the light from the inside of the building  to light up the building at night.    	  ビルには小さな色彩ガラスも つけられており 夜になると ビル内部の光で ビルが照らし出されます  
 With these ideas it was not easy first to convince the developers  because they were like,  "This is not a shopping mall. We didn't ask for that."    	  開発者にこの構想を 説得するのは簡単ではありませんでした 彼らの反応はこうでした “これは 頼んだショッピングモールではない”  
 But then we all realized that this idea of the market  happened to be a lot more profitable than the idea of the shopping mall  because basically they had more shops to sell.    	  でも 気付いたのは このマーケットの構想は ショッピングモールより もっと儲かるということでした お店がたくさんあるからです  
 And also that the idea of the facade was much, much cheaper,  not only because of the material compared with the glass,  but also because we didn't need to have air conditioning anymore.    	  そして この外観は かなり安上がりでした ガラスよりも 素材が安いというだけではなく 空調を使う必要が なかったからです  
 So we created some budget savings  that we used to implement the project.    	  お蔭で予算も浮かせたので その分で 私の思いを 実現させました  
 And the first implementation was to think  about how we could make the building self-sufficient in terms of energy  in a city that has electricity cuts almost every day.    	  まず 最初に考えたのは このビルを エネルギーの観点で 自給自足できるようにすることです ここでは ほぼ毎日 停電がありますから  
 So we created a huge asset by placing photovoltaics there on the roof.    	  屋上にソーラパネルを設置し これは 大きなメリットになりました  
 And then under those panels  we thought about the roof like a new public space with gathering areas and bars  that would create this urban oasis.    	  また ソーラーパネルの下を 人々が集い お酒も楽しめる 新たな公共スペースとし このような都会のオアシスと したのです  
 And these porches on the roof,  all together they collect the water to reuse for sanitation on the inside.    	  そして 屋上のポーチでは 雨水を集めて ビル内のトイレなどで 再利用できるようにします  
 Hopefully by the beginning of next year, because we are already on the fifth floor of the construction.    	  建設工事は５階まで進んでいるので 来年初めには完成すると思います  
 The second example is a master plan  of 2,000 apartments and facilities in the city of Tunis.    	  ２つ目は チュニスの都市基本計画で ２千のアパート・施設を含むものです ２つ目は チュニスの都市基本計画で ２千のアパート・施設を含むものです  
 And for doing such a big project, the biggest project I've ever designed,  I really needed to understand the city of Tunis,  but also its surroundings and the tradition and culture.    	  今までで最大のプロジェクトで こうした大規模なものに取り組むにあたり 私は チュニスの街を 理解する必要がありました 街だけではなく 周辺環境や伝統・文化もです  
 During that analysis I paid special attention to the medina  that is this 1,000-year-old structure that used to be closed by a wall,  opened by twelve different gates, connected by almost straight lines.    	  この分析をする過程で 特に着目したのがメディナです メディナは 城壁に囲まれた旧市街地で 千年の歴史があります 12の門で外とつながり それが ほぼ直線で結ばれています  
 When I went to the site, the first design operation we did  was to extend the existing streets, creating 12 initial blocks  similar in size and characteristics to the ones we have in Barcelona  and other cities in Europe with these courtyards.    	  建設予定現場で まず行った基本設計は 既存の道を延長して 12の区画を作ることです ちょうど バルセロナなどの ヨーロッパの都市のような 中庭のある区画と同じ 大きさや特徴にしました  
 On top of that, we selected some strategic points  reminded of this idea of the gates and connecting them by straight lines,  and this modified this initial pattern.    	  さらに 先ほどの門にあたる 戦略的な拠点をいくつか選び それらが直線で 結ばれるようにしました これによって 最初のパターンが変更されました  
 And the last operation was to think about the cell,  the small cell of the project, like the apartment,  as an essential part of the master plan.    	  そして 最後に考えたのが 構成単位 アパートのような 小さな構成単位です 基本計画の 重要な部分です  
 And for that I thought, what would be the best orientation  in the Mediterranean climate for an apartment?    	  そして アパートを どんな向きにすれば この地中海性気候を 最も快適に過ごせるか考え  
 And it's north-south, because it creates a thermal difference between both sides of the house  and then a natural ventilation.    	  南北方向にすることにしました 家の両側で温度差ができ 自然と換気がされるからです  
 So we overlap a pattern that makes sure that most of the apartments  are perfectly oriented in that direction.    	  パターンを重ねて ほとんどのアパートが 完全にその方向に なるようにしました  
 And this is the result  that is almost like a combination of the European block and the Arab city.    	  これが その結果で ちょうど ヨーロッパの区画と アラブ都市があわさった感じです  
 It has these blocks with courtyards,  and then on the ground floor  you have all these connections for the pedestrians.    	  中庭がある区画があり そして 一階には 歩行者用の こうした通りがあります  
 And also it responds to the local regulations that establish  a higher density on the upper levels and a lower density on the ground floor.    	  また これは 地元の規則にも合っていて 上層階では高密度で 下層階は低密度になっています  
 And it also reinforces this idea of the gates.    	  こちらも メディナの門を イメージしています  
 The volume has this connecting shape  that shades itself with three different types of apartments  and also lets the light go on the ground floor in a very dense neighborhood  And in the courtyards there are the different facilities,  such as a gym and a kindergarten  and close by, a series of commercial [spaces] that bring activity to the ground floor.    	  全体は このような形で ３種類の異なる型の部屋を 結び付けて日陰を作り出しています また とても密集した作りであっても 一階に光を通します 中庭には ジムや幼稚園など 様々な施設がありますし 中庭には ジムや幼稚園など 様々な施設がありますし 近くには商業スペースもあり 一階での活動も促します  
 The roof, which is my favorite space of the project  is almost like giving back to the community the space taken by the construction.    	  このプロジェクトで 一番好きなのが屋上ですが 建物で土地がなくなった分 人々は屋上を使えるのです  
 And it's where all the neighbors, they can go up and socialize,  and do activities such as having a two-kilometer run in the morning,  jumping from one building to another.    	  近所の人たちは 屋上で交流して 色んな活動ができます 例えば 朝の２キロ・ランや 別のビルへ飛び移ることもです  
 These two examples,  they have a common approach in the design process.    	  ２つの例を紹介しましたが 共通しているのは 設計プロセスでのアプローチです  
 And also, they are in emerging countries where you can see  the cities literally growing.    	  また これらは 新興国でのプロジェクトで 文字通り 都市は成長しています  
 In these cities, the impact of architecture in people's lives of today and tomorrow  changes the local communities and economies at the same speed as the buildings grow.    	  これらの都市では 建築は 今日 明日の人々の生活に影響を与え ビルが建つのと同じスピードで 地元社会や経済を変えていきます  
 For this reason, I see even more importance  to look at architecture finding simple but affordable solutions  that enhance the relationship between the community and the environment  and that aim to connect nature and people.    	  だからこそ ますます重要になると思うのが 建築で シンプルだが 十分可能な解決策を見つけ 社会と環境の橋渡しをして 自然と人々を結びつけることなのです  
 Thank you very much.    	  ありがとうございました  
 So when I was eight years old,  a new girl came to join the class,  and she was so impressive,  as the new girl always seems to be.    	  私が８歳のときです クラスに新しい女の子が転校してきました とっても素敵な女の子です 転校生は いつもそんな感じですね  
 She had vast quantities of very shiny hair  and a cute little pencil case,  super strong on state capitals,  just a great speller.    	  あふれるような髪を キラキラ輝かせて 可愛い小さな筆箱を持ち歩いて 州都を全部覚えていて 単語のつづりも完璧  
 And I just curdled with jealousy that year,  until I hatched my devious plan.    	  その年 私は嫉妬に駆られました そこで悪巧みを企てたのです  
 So one day I stayed a little late after school,  a little too late, and I lurked in the girls' bathroom.    	  ある日の放課後 少しだけ遅くまで残っていました 実は かなり遅くまで 女子トイレに隠れていました  
 When the coast was clear, I emerged,  crept into the classroom,  and took from my teacher's desk the grade book.    	  誰もいなくなった頃 いざ出陣です 教室に 忍び込みました 先生の机から 成績表を取り出して  
 And then I did it.    	  やってやりました  
 I fiddled with my rival's grades,  just a little, just demoted some of those A's.    	  ライバルの成績をいじったのです ちょっとだけですよ いくつかのAを降格させただけ  
 All of those A's.   And I got ready to return the book to the drawer,  when hang on, some of my other classmates  had appallingly good grades too.    	  実は全部のAです 机に成績表を戻そうとした時 ちょっと待てよと 他のクラスメートたちも 怖いくらい良い成績でした  
 So, in a frenzy,  I corrected everybody's marks,  not imaginatively.    	  逆上した私は 全員の成績を修正しました 実際にやりましたよ  
 I gave everybody a row of D's  and I gave myself a row of A's,  just because I was there, you know, might as well.    	  全員にオールDをあげて 自分にはオールAをあげました 折角 手元に成績表があったことですしね  
 And I am still baffled by my behavior.    	  今でも後ろめたい気持ちです  
 I don't understand where the idea came from.    	  こんな考え どこから思いついたんでしょう  
 I don't understand why I felt so great doing it.    	  何で あんなに気持ち良かったか 分かりません  
 I felt great.    	  最高の気分でした  
 I don't understand why I was never caught.    	  ばれなかったのも不思議です  
 I mean, it should have been so blatantly obvious.    	  明らかに不正が分かるはずなのに  
 I was never caught.    	  見つかりませんでした  
 But most of all, I am baffled by,  why did it bother me so much  that this little girl, this tiny little girl,  was so good at spelling?    	  とりわけ 分からなかったのが なぜ こんなに気に障ったかです あの小さな小さな女の子が ちょっと頭がいいだけなのに  
 Jealousy baffles me.    	  私は嫉妬に駆られたのです  
 It's so mysterious, and it's so pervasive.    	  嫉妬とは とてもミステリアスで 皆さん良くご存知のものです  
 We know babies suffer from jealousy.    	  赤ちゃんだって嫉妬しますし  
 We know primates do. Bluebirds are actually very prone.    	  霊長類も嫉妬します ツグミも その傾向が強いです  
 We know that jealousy is the number one cause  of spousal murder in the United States.    	  嫉妬は配偶者間の殺人の １番目の原因です ここアメリカでです  
 And yet, I have never read a study  that can parse to me its loneliness  or its longevity or its grim thrill.    	  それにも かかわらず 嫉妬がもたらす 孤独やしつこさ 悪巧みをさせてしまうことについての 研究はありませんでした  
 For that, we have to go to fiction,  because the novel is the lab  that has studied jealousy  in every possible configuration.    	  ですから フィクションに 頼らざるを得ないのです 小説は あらゆる角度で 嫉妬を研究する 実験室だからです  
 In fact, I don't know if it's an exaggeration to say  that if we didn't have jealousy,  would we even have literature?    	  実際 大げさかもしれませんが もし嫉妬という感情がなければ 文学は無かったかもしれません  
 Well no faithless Helen, no "Odyssey."    	  不誠実な王妃ヘレンなしに 『オデュッセイア』が  
 No jealous king, no "Arabian Nights."    	  嫉妬深い王なしに 『千夜一夜物語』は成り立ちません  
 No Shakespeare.    	  シェイクスピアもしかりです  
 There goes high school reading lists,  because we're losing "Sound and the Fury,"  we're losing "Gatsby," "Sun Also Rises,"  we're losing "Madame Bovary," "Anna K."    	  高校の必読書が無くなってしまいますね というのも『響きと怒り』 『華麗なるギャッツビー』『日はまた昇る』 『ボヴァリー夫人』『アンナ・カレーニナ』も 消えてしまいます  
 No jealousy, no Proust. And now, I mean,  I know it's fashionable to say that Proust  has the answers to everything,  but in the case of jealousy,  he kind of does.    	  嫉妬が無ければプルーストも 人々の心に残っていないでしょう プルーストは何でも知っていたというのは 粋な感じですが 嫉妬に関しては あながち間違いではありません  
 This year is the centennial of his masterpiece, "In Search of Lost Time,"  and it's the most exhaustive study of sexual jealousy  and just regular competitiveness, my brand,  that we can hope to have.   And we think about Proust, we think  about the sentimental bits, right?    	  今年は彼の名作『失われた時を求めて』の 100周年ですが この作品では男女の嫉妬について 徹底研究しています それとライバル競争 これは私のお気に入りで 皆さん興味がありますよね プルーストを想起すると 感傷的になりますよね？  
 We think about a little boy trying to get to sleep.    	  小さい男の子が必死に寝つこうとする姿  
 We think about a madeleine moistened in lavender tea.    	  熱い紅茶にマドレーヌを浸す 場面を思い起こします  
 We forget how harsh his vision was.    	  私たちは彼の見解が どれだけ辛らつで  
 We forget how pitiless he is.    	  どれだけ無慈悲か忘れていますけれど  
 I mean, these are books that Virginia Woolf said  were tough as cat gut.    	  ヴァージニア・ウルフによれば これらの本は 動物の腸から作る 腸線のように頑丈だと  
 I don't know what cat gut is,  but let's assume it's formidable.    	  腸線って何でしょうね とにかく末恐ろしいんでしょう では これから 小説と嫉妬  
 Let's look at why they go so well together, the novel and jealousy, jealousy and Proust.    	  嫉妬とプルーストが なぜ こんなにも相思相愛なのか見ていきます  
 Is it something as obvious as that jealousy,  which boils down into person, desire, impediment,  is such a solid narrative foundation?    	  嫉妬というのは それを煎じつめて 人々の欲望や障壁にしてしまうと 確固たる物語の基盤になるものでしょうか？  
 I don't know. I think it cuts very close to the bone,  because let's think about what happens  when we feel jealous.    	  よく分かりませんが 核心には迫っているはずです ここで 嫉妬に駆られたときの 私たちの行動について考えてみましょう  
 When we feel jealous, we tell ourselves a story.    	  嫉妬を感じたとき 私たちは自ら物語を語り始めます  
 We tell ourselves a story about other people's lives,  and these stories make us feel terrible  because they're designed to make us feel terrible.    	  他人の生活について 勝手に物語を語るのです この物語は私たちを嫌な気分にさせます そういう風に作られているからです  
 As the teller of the tale and the audience,  we know just what details to include,  to dig that knife in. Right?    	  物語の語り手と 観客が同一人物なんですから どんな情報を盛り込めば 傷つけられるか分かっています  
 Jealousy makes us all amateur novelists,  and this is something Proust understood.    	  嫉妬は 私たちを素人小説家に仕立て上げます プルーストは これを理解していました  
 In the first volume, Swann's Way,  Swann, one of the main characters,  is thinking very fondly of his mistress  and how great she is in bed,  and suddenly, in the course of a few sentences,  and these are Proustian sentences,  so they're long as rivers,  but in the course of a few sentences,  he suddenly recoils and he realizes,  "Hang on, everything I love about this woman,  somebody else would love about this woman.    	  第１篇である『スワン家の方へ』では 第１篇である『スワン家の方へ』では 主要登場人物のスワンが 彼の愛人を愛情深く 思い出して 官能的な思い出に浸っています 突然 数行先では ― 数行と言っても プルーストの語り口ですから 川のように長いです ですが 数行を経て スワンは突如 動転します 「ちょっと待て この女性について 私が愛していることは 他の人も愛しているのかもしれない  
 Everything that she does that gives me pleasure  could be giving somebody else pleasure,  maybe right about now."    	  以前は私に向けられていた 彼女の愛情は 他の男に与えられているかもしれない まさに この瞬間さえも！」  
 And this is the story he starts to tell himself,  and from then on, Proust writes that  every fresh charm Swann detects in his mistress,  he adds to his "collection of instruments  in his private torture chamber."    	  ここから スワンは 自ら物語を語り始めます プルーストは こんな風にしたためます スワンは愛人に認めた全ての美しさを 「自らを拷問する道具の１つにしたのだ」と 「自らを拷問する道具の１つにしたのだ」と  
 Now Swann and Proust, we have to admit,  were notoriously jealous.    	  スワンとプルーストですが ご存知のとおり 両者とも嫉妬深さで有名です  
 You know, Proust's boyfriends would have to leave  the country if they wanted to break up with him.    	  プルーストの恋人たちは 別れたければ 国外に出なくてはいけない程でした  
 But you don't have to be that jealous  to concede that it's hard work. Right?    	  でも こんなに骨が折れるなら そこまで嫉妬しなくて良いですよね？  
 Jealousy is exhausting.    	  嫉妬はエネルギーを使います  
 It's a hungry emotion. It must be fed.    	  渇望する感情なので それを癒す糧が必要です  
 And what does jealousy like?    	  嫉妬の好物は何でしょう？  
 Jealousy likes information.    	  それは情報であり  
 Jealousy likes details.    	  詳細です  
 Jealousy likes the vast quantities of shiny hair,  the cute little pencil case.    	  嫉妬はキラキラ輝く 豊かな髪が好きで 可愛いくて小さい筆箱  
 Jealousy likes photos.    	  写真も好きですね  
 That's why Instagram is such a hit.   Proust actually links the language of scholarship and jealousy.    	  インスタグラムが流行しているのは このためです プルーストですが 学識と嫉妬が相俟った表現を用います  
 When Swann is in his jealous throes,  and suddenly he's listening at doorways  and bribing his mistress' servants,  he defends these behaviors.    	  スワンが嫉妬に狂ったとき 彼は戸口で盗み聞きしたり 愛人の召使を買収します こんな自分の行動を正当化して  
 He says, "You know, look, I know you think this is repugnant,  but it is no different  from interpreting an ancient text  or looking at a monument."    	  「君には不快かもしれないが 古文書の判読や 記念碑の解釈などと 何ら違いない」と言うのです  
 He says, "They are scientific investigations  with real intellectual value."    	  「これは真に知的な価値をもった 科学的調査である」と  
 Proust is trying to show us that jealousy  feels intolerable and makes us look absurd,  but it is, at its crux, a quest for knowledge,  a quest for truth, painful truth,  and actually, where Proust is concerned,  the more painful the truth, the better.    	  プルーストが私たちに示したかったものは 嫉妬とは耐え難いものであり 我々を愚かに見せる しかし その核心にあるのは 知識の探求であり 己を傷つけるかもしれない 真実の欲求で プルーストの考えとは 真実が苦痛であればあるほど 良しとしたのです  
 Grief, humiliation, loss:  These were the avenues to wisdom for Proust.    	  苦悩 卑しめ 失うこととは プルーストにとって 英知への道だったのです  
 He says, "A woman whom we need,  who makes us suffer, elicits from us  a gamut of feelings far more profound and vital  than a man of genius who interests us."    	  プルーストはこうも言っています 「私たちが必要な女性とは 我々を悩ませ 絶大で生き生きとした感情を 引き出してくれる人であり 私たちに興味を抱かせるような インテリよりも はるかに優れている」  
 Is he telling us to just go and find cruel women?    	  私たちに残酷な女性を探せと 言っているのでしょうか？  
 No. I think he's trying to say  that jealousy reveals us to ourselves.    	  違います 彼が言いたかったのは 嫉妬とは私たちに 己の真の姿を見せるのだということ  
 And does any other emotion crack us open in this particular way?    	  あらゆる感情の中で 私たちが こんな独特な方法で  
 Does any other emotion reveal to us  our aggression and our hideous ambition  and our entitlement?    	  自己を曝け出すものは 他にあるでしょうか？ 他の感情で こんなにも敵意 隠れた野心 権利意識を  
 Does any other emotion teach us to look  with such peculiar intensity?    	  露呈させるものはありません 嫉妬以外の感情で こんなにも 特異な激しさを  
 Freud would write about this later.    	  もたらすものはないでしょう  
 One day, Freud was visited  by this very anxious young man who was consumed  with the thought of his wife cheating on him.    	  フロイトも嫉妬について したためています ある日 フロイトのもとを 自分の妻の不貞を疑う  
 And Freud says, it's something strange about this guy,  because he's not looking at what his wife is doing.    	  若い男性が訪れます フロイトは この男性は少し奇妙だと言います なぜなら 妻がやっていることには 目もくれないのです  
 Because she's blameless; everybody knows it.    	  彼女に非が無いのは明白でした  
 The poor creature is just  under suspicion for no cause.    	  かわいそうに いわれの無い 疑惑の目を向けられたのです  
 But he's looking for things that his wife is doing  without noticing, unintentional behaviors.    	  しかし この男性は 妻が無意識にやっている行動を 見ていたようでした  
 Is she smiling too brightly here,  or did she accidentally brush up against a man there?    	  必要以上に笑顔を見せていなかったか？ そこにいる男を 意図的に触れたのか？  
 [Freud] says that the man is becoming  the custodian of his wife's unconscious.    	  フロイトは この男性は 妻の無意識の行動に 執着してしまったのだと分析しました  
 The novel is very good on this point.    	  小説は この点を得意とします  
 The novel is very good at describing how jealousy  trains us to look with intensity but not accuracy.    	  小説は嫉妬によって 私たちが どのように感情的に ― しかし 正確さを欠いた状態で 物事を捉えるようになるか示してくれます  
 In fact, the more intensely jealous we are,  the more we become residents of fantasy.    	  事実 私たちは 嫉妬の虜になるほど 架空の世界の 住人になってしまうのです  
 And this is why, I think, jealousy doesn't  just provoke us to do violent things  or illegal things.    	  私が考えるに 嫉妬は 私たちを暴力や違法行為に 向かわせるだけでなく  
 Jealousy prompts us to behave in ways  that are wildly inventive.    	  思いもよらないような行動に 駆り立てます  
 Now I'm thinking of myself at eight, I concede,  but I'm also thinking of this story I heard on the news.    	  私が８歳の時にしたことは 間違っていました でもニュースでこんな話も 知りました  
 A 52-year-old Michigan woman was caught  creating a fake Facebook account  from which she sent vile, hideous messages  to herself for a year.    	  ミシガンに住む 52歳の女性が 偽フェイスブックアカウントを 作成したことで逮捕されました 罪状は不謹慎で不愉快なメッセージを 送り続けたことで なんと彼女自身に対してで １年もです  
 For a year. A year.    	  １年ですよ １年も  
 And she was trying to frame  her ex-boyfriend's new girlfriend,  and I have to confess when I heard this,  I just reacted with admiration.    	  彼女の たくらみは 元彼の彼女を 犯人に仕立てることでした 正直に告白しますが このニュースを聞いて 讃辞が浮かびました  
   Because, I mean, let's be real.    	   なぜなら・・・現実的に考えてみましょう  
 What immense, if misplaced, creativity. Right?    	  間違った方法だとしても なんと素晴らしい想像力でしょう  
 This is something from a novel.    	  小説ものだと思います  
 This is something from a Patricia Highsmith novel.    	  パトリシア・ハイスミスの小説並です  
 Now Highsmith is a particular favorite of mine.    	  ハイスミスの小説は 私のお気に入りです  
 She is the very brilliant and bizarre woman of American letters.    	  アメリカの作家で とても知的で風変わりです  
 She's the author of "Strangers on a Train"  and "The Talented Mr. Ripley,"  books that are all about how jealousy,  it muddles our minds,  and once we're in the sphere, in that realm of jealousy,  the membrane between what is and what could be  can be pierced in an instant.    	  『見知らぬ乗客』の作家で 『太陽がいっぱい』も有名ですね 彼女は これらの小説で 嫉妬が心をかき乱す様を 描き出しました ひとたび嫉妬の領域に 足を踏み入れると 事実と仮定を隔てていた 薄い膜が 瞬く間に消えてしまうことを 描写します  
 Take Tom Ripley, her most famous character.    	  特に有名なのがトム・リプリーです  
 Now, Tom Ripley goes from wanting you  or wanting what you have  to being you and having what you once had,  and you're under the floorboards,  he's answering to your name,  he's wearing your rings,  emptying your bank account.    	  トム・リプリーは 人物や その人の持ち物に憧れると トム・リプリーは 人物や その人の持ち物に憧れると やがて その人物になりすまし 彼を殺して 人生を乗っ取ります やがて その人物になりすまし 彼を殺して 人生を乗っ取ります 犠牲者の名前を使い 彼の指輪をはめて 彼のお金で優雅に暮らします  
 That's one way to go.    	  １つのやり方でしょうけれど  
 But what do we do? We can't go the Tom Ripley route.    	  私たちはどうしたら良いでしょう？ トム・リプリーのやり方は真似できません  
 I can't give the world D's,  as much as I would really like to, some days.    	  私だって 全ての人に Dをつけれません いつの日か やってみたい願望はありますけど  
 And it's a pity, because we live in envious times.    	  これは残念なことだと思います なぜなら私たちは  
 We live in jealous times.    	  嫉妬の時代に生きているから  
 I mean, we're all good citizens of social media,  aren't we, where the currency is envy?    	  私たちはソーシャルメディアの 世界に住んでいますが その裏にあるのは羨望ですよね？  
 Does the novel show us a way out? I'm not sure.    	  小説が嫉妬の解決法を教えてくれたでしょうか？ 私には分かりません  
 So let's do what characters always do when they're not sure,  when they are in possession of a mystery.    	  それでは小説の登場人物は 不可解なことがあったら どうするでしょうか？  
 Let's go to 221B Baker Street  and ask for Sherlock Holmes.    	  ベーカー街221Bに行って シャーロック・ホームズに尋ねてみましょう  
 When people think of Holmes,  they think of his nemesis being Professor Moriarty,  right, this criminal mastermind.    	  ホームズを思い浮かべると 宿敵のジェームズ・モリアーティ教授を 思い起こします そう あの悪党一味の統領です  
 But I've always preferred [Inspector] Lestrade,  who is the rat-faced head of Scotland Yard  who needs Holmes desperately,  needs Holmes' genius, but resents him.    	  私はレストレード警部派ですけど 彼はスコットランド・ヤード所属の ネズミ顔の警察官で ホームズの才知に頼りますが ホームズを良くも思っていません  
 Oh, it's so familiar to me.    	  あー すごく親近感がわきます  
 So Lestrade needs his help, resents him,  and sort of seethes with bitterness over the course of the mysteries.    	  レストレード警部はホームズの助けが必要だが 同時に不快でもある そして 事件を進めながら 苦々しい思いを噛み締めている  
 But as they work together, something starts to change,  and finally in "The Adventure of the Six Napoleons,"  once Holmes comes in, dazzles everybody with his solution,  Lestrade turns to Holmes and he says,  "We're not jealous of you, Mr. Holmes.    	  でも一緒に事件を解いていくうちに 変化が訪れます ついに『六つのナポレオン』で ホームズが見事に事件を解決して 周りを魅了すると レストレード警部はホームズに向かって こう言います 「ホームズさん スコットランド・ヤードは あなたに嫉妬したりしない  
 We're proud of you."    	  あなたは誇りです」 こう続けます  
 And he says that there's not a man at Scotland Yard  who wouldn't want to shake Sherlock Holmes' hand.    	  「スコットランド・ヤードで 年上の警部から 若い警部まで あなたと握手したがらない者はおりません」  
 It's one of the few times we see Holmes moved  in the mysteries, and I find it very moving,  this little scene, but it's also mysterious, right?    	  するとホームズは珍しく感激し とても感動的だと思います この小さなシーンですが これも謎めいていますね？  
 It seems to treat jealousy  as a problem of geometry, not emotion.    	  ここでは嫉妬を 感情の問題ではなく 幾何学の問題として捉えているのです  
 You know, one minute Holmes is on the other side from Lestrade.    	  少し前までホームズは レストレード警部から敵視されていて  
 The next minute they're on the same side.    	  次の瞬間には 全員が仲間になったのです  
 Suddenly, Lestrade is letting himself  admire this mind that he's resented.    	  突如として 警部は 不快に思っていたことを 賛美し 受け入れたのです  
 Could it be so simple though?    	  でも こんなに単純なものでしょうか？  
 What if jealousy really is a matter of geometry,  just a matter of where we allow ourselves to stand  in relation to another?    	  嫉妬とは 実は幾何学的問題であり 他人との関係で 自分をどこに位置づけるかと言う 指標でしかなかったら？  
 Well, maybe then we wouldn't have to resent  somebody's excellence.    	  そうだとすれば 他人の素晴らしさを 不快に思う必要はありませんよね 仲間になれば良いのです  
 We could align ourselves with it.    	  私は万一に備えて 計画を立てるのが好きなので  
 But I like contingency plans.    	  嫉妬が解明されるまでは  
 So while we wait for that to happen,  let us remember that we have fiction for consolation.    	  安らぎのために 小説があることを覚えておきましょう フィクションだけでも 嫉妬を説明してくれますし  
 Fiction alone demystifies jealousy.    	  嫉妬をマスターでき  
 Fiction alone domesticates it,  invites it to the table.    	  議論の場にもなります 優しいレストレード警部  
 sweet Lestrade, terrifying Tom Ripley,  crazy Swann, Marcel Proust himself.    	  恐ろしいトム・リプリー 嫉妬に狂うスワンや マルセル・プルースト自身  
 We are in excellent company.    	  私たちは素晴らしい仲間に 囲まれています  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 So, we used to solve big problems.    	  我々は人類の課題を 解決していたものです  
 On July 21st, 1969,  Buzz Aldrin climbed out of Apollo 11's lunar module  and descended onto the Sea of Tranquility.    	  1969年7月21日 バズ・オルドリンは アポロ11号の月着陸船から 月の「静かの海」に 降り立ちました  
 Armstrong and Aldrin were alone,  but their presence on the moon's gray surface  was the culmination of a convulsive, collective effort.    	  アームストロングとオルドリンの ２人だけでしたが 灰色の月面に降り立つことは 人類が総力をあげた結果でした  
 The Apollo program was the greatest  in the history of the United States.    	  アポロ計画は アメリカ史上で最も誇れる —  
 To get to the moon, NASA spent  around 180 billion dollars in today's money,  or four percent of the federal budget.    	  平和時代の力の集結です NASAはこの計画に 今の価値にして約千八百億ドル 国家予算の４%をつぎ込み  
 Apollo employed around 400,000 people  and demanded the collaboration of 20,000  companies, universities and government agencies.    	  40万人が作業を行い ２万の会社 大学 政府機関が力を注ぎました  
 People died, including the crew of Apollo 1.    	  アポロ１号の乗組員も含め 亡くなられた方々もいます  
 But before the Apollo program ended,  24 men flew to the moon.    	  アポロ計画が終了するまでに 24人の宇宙飛行士が月に旅立ち  
 Twelve walked on its surface, of whom Aldrin,  following the death of Armstrong last year,  is now the most senior.    	  12人が月面に降り立ちました 去年アームストロング が亡くなり 今一番の古参はオルドリンです  
 So why did they go?    	  彼らはなぜ月に行ったのでしょう？  
 They didn't bring much back:  841 pounds of old rocks,  and something all 24 later emphasized --  a new sense of the smallness  and the fragility of our common home.    	  多くは持ち帰ってはいません 381kgの石 そして 帰って来た24人が 口を揃えて唱えたそうです 我々の住む地球は小さく 儚く見えたそうです  
 Why did they go? The cynical answer is they went  because President Kennedy wanted to show  the Soviets that his nation had the better rockets.    	  なぜ月に行ったのでしょう？ そのシニカルな答えは ケネディ大統領がソビエトに ロケットを 見せつけたかったからですが  
 But Kennedy's own words at Rice University in 1962  provide a better clue.    	  ケネディ大統領は1962年 ライス大学でのスピーチで このように説明をしています  
  John F. Kennedy: But why, some say, the moon?    	  ジョンF・ケネディ： なぜ月へ行く事を  
 Why choose this as our goal?    	  目指すのか問う人もいます  
 And they may well ask,  why climb the highest mountain?    	  その人達は こうも尋ねるでしょう なぜ一番高い山を登るのか？  
 Why, 35 years ago, fly the Atlantic?    	  なぜ35年前に 大西洋を飛んだのか？  
 Why does Rice play Texas?    	  なぜライス大はテキサス大との 試合に挑むのか？  
 We choose to go to the moon.    	  我々は月に行く事にしました  
 We choose to go to the moon.    	  月に行くことにしたんです  
   We choose to go to the moon in this decade,  and do the other things,  not because they are easy, but because they are hard.    	  （拍手） この10年で月に行くと 決めたり 他の目標を目指すのは 安易だからでなく 難しいからです  
 Jason Pontin: To contemporaries,  Apollo wasn't only a victory of West over East  in the Cold War.    	  当時の人々にとって アポロは冷戦中の ソビエトに対する 勝利を意味しただけ ではありません  
 At the time, the strongest emotion  was of wonder at the transcendent powers of technology.    	  賛嘆するものでもありました 賛嘆するものでもありました  
 They went because it was a big thing to do.    	  大きなチャレンジ故に 行ったのです  
 Landing on the moon occurred in the context  of a long series of technological triumphs.    	  月面に着陸した頃は 他にも数々の技術が 成功を収めていました  
 The first half of the 20th century produced  the assembly line and the airplane,  penicillin and a vaccine for tuberculosis.    	  20世紀前半には 工場の組み立てライン 飛行機やペニシリン 結核のワクチンが生まれました  
 In the middle years of the century,  polio was eradicated and smallpox eliminated.    	  20世紀の中期には ポリオも天然痘も なくなりました  
 Technology itself seemed to possess  what Alvin Toffler in 1970  called "accelerative thrust."    	  当時の技術は1970年に アルビン・トフラーが唱えた 当時の技術は1970年に アルビン・トフラーが唱えた 「加速的推進力」を 備えていたかのようでした  
 For most of human history,  we could go no faster than a horse  or a boat with a sail,  but in 1969, the crew of Apollo 10  flew at 25,000 miles an hour.    	  それまでの人類の歴史のなか 馬や帆船より速く動くことは できませんでした しかし1969年 アポロ10号は 時速４万kmで旅立ちました  
 Since 1970, no human beings  have been back to the moon.    	  1970年以来 誰も月に行っていません  
 No one has traveled faster than the crew  of Apollo 10,  and blithe optimism about technology's powers  has evaporated  as big problems we had imagined technology would solve,  such as going to Mars,  creating clean energy, curing cancer,  or feeding the world have come to seem  intractably hard.    	  誰もアポロ10号以上の速度で 旅をしていません テクノロジーの力に対する 楽観的期待は どこかに消えてしまいました 技術の力で 解決されると思われた — 火星に行くとか クリーンエネルギー､癌治療 食糧問題などの大きな問題は 手に負えないと 思われるようになりました  
 I remember watching the liftoff of Apollo 17.    	  アポロ17号の発射が 今でも目に焼きついています  
 I was five years old,  at the fiery exhaust of a Saturn V rocket.    	  私は５歳でした サターンV型ロケットから出る  
 I vaguely knew this was to be the last  of the moon missions,  but I was absolutely certain there would be  Mars colonies in my lifetime.    	  炎のようなガスを 見つめないように母が言いました これが最後の月旅行だと 薄々理解していましたが 私が生きている間に必ず 火星コロニーは実現すると 確信していました  
 So "Something happened  to our capacity to solve big problems with technology"  has become a commonplace.    	  その後 テクノロジーが持つ 問題解決能力に 何かが起きたと 我々は思うようになりました  
 You hear it all the time.    	  よく聞く事です  
 We've heard it over the last two days here at TED.    	  TEDでもこの２日間 話題に上がっています  
 It feels as if technologists have diverted us  and enriched themselves with trivial toys, with things like iPhones and apps and social media,  or algorithms that speed automated trading.    	  技術者達は 我々の関心を逸らし iPone､アプリ､ソーシャルメディア 株売買をスピードアップする アルゴリズムなどの  
 There's nothing wrong with most of these things.    	  些細なもので自分たちを 豊かにしているかの様です これらはいけないこと ではありません  
 They've expanded and enriched our lives.    	  我々の生活を 豊かにし広げています  
 But they don't solve humanity's big problems.    	  でも人類の課題は 解決できません  
 What happened?    	  何が起ったのでしょう？  
 So there is a parochial explanation in Silicon Valley,  which admits that it has been funding less ambitious companies  Silicon Valley says the markets are to blame,  in particular the incentives that venture capitalists  offer to entrepreneurs.    	  シリコンバレーの お決まりの答えは 投資していた時代に比べ 野心的な会社への 投資が減ったと言う事です シリコンバレーは これを市場の責任にし 特にベンチャーキャピタルの 企業家へのインセンティブが 原因だとしています  
 Silicon Valley says that venture investing  shifted away from funding transformational ideas  and towards funding incremental problems  or even fake problems.    	  シリコンバレーによると ベンチャーキャピタルは 革新的なアイデアから離れ ちょっとした改良や 実際にない問題にまで 投資するようになりました  
 But I don't think that explanation is good enough.    	  でもそれだけではありません  
 It mostly explains what's wrong with Silicon Valley.    	  シリコンバレーに 問題があるのです  
 Even when venture capitalists were at their most  risk-happy, they preferred small investments,  tiny investments that offered an exit within 10 years.    	  ベンチャーキャピタルが リスクを好んでいた時でさえ 10年以内に 資金回収の条件の 小規模の投資が 好まれました ベンチャーキャピタルは 多額の資金を要し 開発期間が長い  
 V.C.s have always struggled to invest profitably in technologies such as energy  whose capital requirements are huge  and whose development is long and lengthy,  and V.C.s have never, never funded the development of technologies meant to solve big problems  that possess no immediate commercial value.    	  エネルギーなどの テクノロジーへの投資からは なかなか利益を得られず 人類の課題を解決するような 即 商品価値を 生み出さない技術には 見向きもしませんでした  
 No, the reasons we can't solve big problems  are more complicated and more profound.    	  でも 人類の課題を 解決できない理由は 実はもっと複雑で深刻です  
 Sometimes we choose not to solve big problems.    	  我々が抱える大きな問題には ときにはわざと手を付けないこともあります  
 We could go to Mars if we want.    	  火星に行きたければ 行けるのです  
 NASA even has the outline of a plan.    	  NASAにはその 計画案があります  
 But going to Mars would follow a political decision  with popular appeal, and that will never happen.    	  でも火星に行くことは 政治がからみ 世間の支持無しには 決して実現しないでしょう  
 We won't go to Mars, because everyone thinks  there are more important things  to do here on Earth.    	  皆 火星に行くよりも 地球にはもっと 大切なことがあると 信じているからです  
 Sometimes, we can't solve big problems  because our political systems fail.    	  人類の課題を 解決出来ないときは 政治の機能不全 による事もあります  
 Today, less than two percent  of the world's energy consumption  derives from advanced, renewable sources  such as solar, wind and biofuels,  less than two percent,  and the reason is purely economic.    	  現在 世界の エネルギー消費の２%以下が 現在 世界の エネルギー消費の２%以下が 太陽光 風力 バイオ燃料など 先端技術による 再利用できるものです ２%にも足りません その理由は 経済的なものです  
 Coal and natural gas are cheaper  than solar and wind,  and petroleum is cheaper than biofuels.    	  石炭や天然ガスは 太陽熱や風力より安く 石油はバイオ燃料より安い  
 We want alternative energy sources  that can compete on price. None exist.    	  それに変わる安いエネルギーは 必要とされているのに ないのです  
 Now, technologists, business leaders  and economists all basically agree  on what national policies and international treaties  would spur the development of alternative energy:  mostly, a significant increase in energy  research and development,  and some kind of price on carbon.    	  さて 技術者 ビジネスリーダー 経済学者達は 新しいエネルギー開発を 奨励する 国内外の政策に 賛成しています それらは主に エネルギーの研究開発推進と それ等は主に エネルギーの研究開発推進と 炭素価格制度の 法制化についてです  
 But there's no hope in the present political climate  that we will see U.S. energy policy  or international treaties that reflect that consensus.    	  でも 今の政治の風潮では このような世論を反映した アメリカのエネルギー政策や 国際条約は期待出来ません  
 Sometimes, big problems that had seemed technological  turn out not to be so.    	  また 技術的なものと 思った人類の課題が 必ずしもそうではない こともあります  
 Famines were long understood to be caused  by failures in food supply.    	  飢餓は長いこと 食料の供給に 原因があると 思われてきました  
 But 30 years of research have taught us  that famines are political crises  that catastrophically affect food distribution.    	  でも30年経って 研究の結果は 政治的な危機が起こす 食料供給の 大惨事だったのです  
 Technology can improve things like crop yields  or systems for storing and transporting food,  but there will be famines so long as there are bad governments.    	  テクノロジーによって 農産物や貯蔵 運輸システムは 改善できますが 政府が改善しなければ 飢餓は続きます  
 Finally, big problems sometimes elude solution  because we don't really understand the problem.    	  そして 人類の課題は 解決されないときもあります それは我々が問題自体を 把握していないからです  
 President Nixon declared war on cancer in 1971,  but we soon discovered  there are many kinds of cancer,  most of them fiendishly resistant to therapy,  and it is only in the last 10 years  that effective, viable therapies  have come to seem real.    	  1971年 ニクソン大統領は 癌の撲滅を宣言しました でもその後 分かったことは いろいろな癌があり 治療が効かない厄介なものが 多いとわかりました やっとこの10年で 効果的で具体的な治療法が 現実となって来ました  
 Hard problems are hard.    	  難しい問題は手強いです  
 It's not true that we can't solve big problems through technology.    	  テクノロジーで大きな問題を 解決出来ないのではありません  
 We can, we must, but these four elements  must all be present:  Political leaders and the public  must care to solve a problem;  institutions must support its solution;  It must really be a technological problem;  and we must understand it.    	  きちんと解決するには ４つの要素が必要です 政治のリーダーと 一般市民が 解決に向けて 問題に取り組み 各機関はそれを支持すること 実際 技術的な問題 であるかを見極め それを理解する事も必要です  
 The Apollo mission,  which has become a kind of metaphor  for technology's capacity to solve big problems,  met these criteria.    	  アポロ計画が 人類の課題を解決する 技術の力の象徴だと 思われていたのは これらの要素を 満たしていたからなのです  
 But it is an irreproducible model for the future.    	  でも将来 これと同じことはできません  
 It is not 1961.    	  今は1961年とは違い  
 There is no galvanizing contest like the Cold War,  no politician like John Kennedy  who can heroize the difficult and the dangerous,  and no popular science fictional mythology  such as exploring the solar system.    	  冷戦のような 人々を奮い立たせる競争もなく ケネディ大統領のように 危険や困難に立ち向かう人を 英雄扱いしたり 太陽系探検のような 人々の心を掴む SF神話もありません  
 Most of all, going to the moon  turned out to be easy.    	  それに 何よりも 月に行く事は 簡単だったのです  
 It was just three days away.    	  たったの３日で 行けたのです  
 And arguably it wasn't even solving  much of a problem.    	  それにより 何か大きな課題が 解決したわけではないのです  
 We are left alone with our day,  and the solutions of the future will be harder won.    	  そんな現代に生きる 我々にとって 未来の課題は更に 高く立ちはだかります  
 God knows, we don't lack for the challenges.    	  チャレンジは次々と やってきます  
 Thank you very much.    	  ありがとうございました  
 So I'm going to talk about trust,  and I'm going to start by reminding you  of the standard views that people have about trust.    	  信頼についてお話しするわけですが まずは 信頼について 一般的に思われていることから 始めましょう  
 I think these are so commonplace,  they've become clichés of our society.    	  非常にありふれた 世間で決まり文句のように 言われてきていることが  
 And I think there are three.    	  ３つあると思うのです  
 One's a claim: there has been a great decline in trust,  very widely believed.    	  一つ目は こんな主張です 「信頼が極度に失われている」 とても多くの人が そう信じています  
 The second is an aim: we should have more trust.    	  二つ目は 目標 「もっと相手を信頼するべきである」  
 And the third is a task: we should rebuild trust.    	  そして三つ目は 課題です 「信頼を再構築しなければならない」  
 I think that the claim, the aim and the task  are all misconceived.    	  こうした主張・目標・課題は どれも 見当はずれだと思うのです  
 So what I'm going to try to tell you today  is a different story about a claim, an aim and a task  which I think give one quite a lot better purchase on the matter.    	  そこで今日はみなさんに 信頼について もっとよく理解するための 手がかりとなる 一味違った 主張・目標・課題について お話ししたいと思います  
 First the claim: Why do people think trust has declined?    	  まず主張について なぜ信頼が 失われていると思うのでしょう？  
 And if I really think about it on the basis of my own evidence,  I don't know the answer.    	  私自身がもつ証拠から考えてみますと 正直わかりません  
 I'm inclined to think it may have declined  in some activities or some institutions  and it might have grown in others.    	  信頼が失われた活動や団体も あるかとは思いますが より信頼を得たところも あるでしょう より信頼を得たところも あるでしょう  
 I don't have an overview.    	  概観は わかりませんが  
 But, of course, I can look at the opinion polls,  and the opinion polls are supposedly  the source of a belief that trust has declined.    	  もちろん 世論調査を 見てみることはできます その世論調査が恐らく 信頼が失われているという主張の 根拠なのでしょうが  
 When you actually look at opinion polls across time,  there's not much evidence for that.    	  実際に 世論調査を 時代別に見てみますと あまりそういった 証拠はありません  
 That's to say, the people who were mistrusted  20 years ago,  principally journalists and politicians, are still mistrusted.    	  つまり こういうことです 20年前に 信頼されていなかった つまり こういうことです 20年前に 信頼されていなかった ジャーナリストとか政治家といった人たちは 今も 信頼されていないのです  
 And the people who were highly trusted 20 years ago  are still rather highly trusted: judges, nurses.    	  逆に 20年前に大きな信頼を得ていた人たちは 今でも 信頼されているわけです 裁判官とか 看護師とかですが  
 The rest of us are in between,  and by the way, the average person in the street  is almost exactly midway.    	  他は その中間です ちなみに そこらにいる平均的な人間は ちょうど真ん中あたり  
 But is that good evidence?    	  でも これが順当な証拠でしょうか  
 What opinion polls record is, of course, opinions.    	  世論調査が伝えるのは あくまで世論です  
 What else can they record?    	  それ以上のものはありません  
 So they're looking at the generic attitudes  that people report when you ask them certain questions. Do you trust politicians? Do you trust teachers?    	  ですから世論調査で分かるのは 「政治家は信頼できますか」 「先生は信頼できますか」　というような  
 Now if somebody said to you, "Do you trust greengrocers?    	  一定の質問を した時に 全体としてどんな反応が得られたかです あなたが こう聞かれたとします 「八百屋さんは信頼できますか」  
 Do you trust fishmongers?    	  「魚屋さんは信頼できますか」  
 Do you trust elementary school teachers?"    	  「小学校の先生は信頼できますか」  
 you would probably begin by saying, "To do what?"    	  そう聞かれたら 「何に対して？」 と 返すのではないでしょうか  
 And that would be a perfectly sensible response.    	  それが真っ当な反応だと思います  
 And you might say, when you understood the answer to that,  "Well, I trust some of them, but not others."    	  そして 何に対する信頼を聞いているのか わかったとしても 「それは 人によりますよ」 と言うんじゃありませんか  
 That's a perfectly rational thing.    	  それがもっとも合理的な答えです  
 In short, in our real lives,  we seek to place trust in a differentiated way.    	  つまり 私たちは実生活において 人を信頼するかは 個々のケースに委ねているのです  
 We don't make an assumption that the level of trust  that we will have in every instance of a certain type  of official or office-holder or type of person  is going to be uniform.    	  特定の役職とか 職種とか あるタイプの人間に対して あらゆる状況において 常に同じだけの信頼を 寄せているなんていうふうには 考えないわけです  
 I might, for example, say that I certainly trust  a certain elementary school teacher I know  to teach the reception class to read,  but in no way to drive the school minibus.    	  例えば 私には 就学前の子どもに 読むことを教えることに対して 例えば 私には 就学前の子どもに 読むことを教えることに対して 絶対的な信頼を寄せている 小学校の先生がいるんですが その先生が スクールバスを運転するとなったら 信頼できません  
 I might, after all, know that she wasn't a good driver.    	  だって彼女は 恐らく運転がうまくありませんから  
 I might trust my most loquacious friend  to keep a conversation going  but not -- but perhaps not to keep a secret.    	  おしゃべりが上手な友人は 会話を続けることに関しては 信頼します でも――　多分 秘密を守ることに関しては 信頼しないでしょうね  
 Simple.    	  単純なことです  
 So if we've got those evidence in our ordinary lives  of the way that trust is differentiated,  why do we sort of drop all that intelligence  when we think about trust more abstractly?    	  普段の生活において 私たちの信頼の度合いは 場合によるという 証拠がこれだけあるわけです ではなぜ 信頼について より抽象的に考えると それが分からなくなってしまうのでしょう  
 I think the polls are very bad guides  to the level of trust that actually exists,  because they try to obliterate the good judgment  that goes into placing trust.    	  世論調査というのは 実際の信頼度を測るのに 非常に悪い方法だと思います そういった調査は 信頼を寄せるかどうかの判断材料について まったく触れないんです  
 Secondly, what about the aim?    	  次に 目標についてはどうでしょうか  
 The aim is to have more trust.    	  より多くの信頼を寄せる という目標です  
 Well frankly, I think that's a stupid aim.    	  率直に言って これは ばかげた目標ですね  
 It's not what I would aim at.    	  私だったらこんなことは目指しません  
 I would aim to have more trust in the trustworthy  but not in the untrustworthy.    	  信頼できる人を もっと信頼して 信頼できない人は 信頼しないことを目指します  
 In fact, I aim positively to try not to trust the untrustworthy.    	  正直なところ 私は 信頼できない人を信頼しないように 努力しています  
 And I think, of those people who, for example,  placed their savings with the very aptly named Mr. Madoff,  who then made off with them,  and I think of them, and I think, well, yes,  too much trust.    	  例えば こういう人がいたでしょう かの有名な詐欺師の Mr.Madoff  に財産を預けて 文字通りMade-offされた  人 そういう人は 信頼しすぎです  
 More trust is not an intelligent aim in this life.    	  多くの信頼を寄せることは 人生において賢い目標とは言えません  
 Intelligently placed and intelligently refused trust  is the proper aim.    	  賢く信頼し 賢く信頼しないことが 適切な目標です  
 Well once one says that, one says, yeah, okay,  that means that what matters in the first place  is not trust but trustworthiness.    	  こうとも言えますね つまり 一番に考えるべきは 「信頼すること」ではなく 「信頼に足るか」 ということです  
 It's judging how trustworthy people are  in particular respects.    	  ある点において どれだけ信頼できる人物なのか ということです ある点において どれだけ信頼できる人物なのか ということです  
 And I think that judgment requires us to look at three things.    	  それを判断するには 次の３つのことをチェックする必要があります  
 Are they competent? Are they honest? Are they reliable?    	  能力があるか 正直か 頼りになるか  
 And if we find that a person is competent  in the relevant matters,  and reliable and honest,  we'll have a pretty good reason to trust them,  because they'll be trustworthy.    	  その人が 特定のことを遂行する能力があって その人が 特定のことを遂行する能力があって 頼りになって 正直なら 信頼に足るわけですから 十分信頼していいでしょう  
 But if, on the other hand, they're unreliable, we might not.    	  でも反対に 頼りない人は 信頼に足るとはいえません  
 I have friends who are competent and honest,  but I would not trust them to post a letter,  I have friends who are very confident  they can do certain things,  but I realize that they overestimate their own competence.    	  私の友達に 有能で正直だけれども 手紙の投函は頼めない人がいます 忘れっぽいので信頼できないのです 何かするのに自信満々なのですが 何かするのに自信満々なのですが  
 And I'm very glad to say, I don't think I have many friends  who are competent and reliable but extremely dishonest.    	  実はそう過信しているだけという友人もいます 私は幸い 有能で頼りになるけれども とんでもなく嘘つきという友人は あまりいません  
   If so, I haven't yet spotted it.    	   いたとしても 気づいていません  
 But that's what we're looking for:  trustworthiness before trust.    	  でもつまり それが重要なことなのです 信頼 よりも「信頼に足るか」  
 Trust is the response.    	  信頼とは それに対する反応です  
 Trustworthiness is what we have to judge.    	  信頼に足るかどうかを 判断しなければなりません  
 And, of course, it's difficult.    	  これが難しいんですよね  
 Across the last few decades, we've tried to construct  systems of accountability for all sorts of institutions  and professionals and officials and so on  that will make it easier for us to judge their trustworthiness.    	  過去数十年の間に あらゆる組織 専門家 役人などが 説明責任を求められるようになりました 信頼に足るか判断するためのものだったはずですが  
 A lot of these systems have the converse effect.    	  多くの場合 逆効果でした  
 They don't work as they're supposed to.    	  本来の役目を果たしていないのです  
 I remember I was talking with a midwife who said,  "Well, you see, the problem is it takes longer  to do the paperwork than to deliver the baby."    	  ある助産婦と話したとき こんなことを言っていました 「赤ん坊を取り上げるより 書類作成に時間がかかって大変だわ」 「赤ん坊を取り上げるより 書類作成に時間がかかって大変だわ」  
 And all over our public life, our institutional life,  we find that problem,  that is meant to secure trustworthiness  and evidence of trustworthiness  is actually doing the opposite.    	  これは社会や組織で どこにでも見られる問題です 信頼性を確保し証明するための 説明責任のシステムが 真逆に作用してしまっているのです  
 It is distracting people who have to do difficult tasks,  like midwives, from doing them  by requiring them to tick the boxes, as we say.    	  真逆に作用してしまっているのです つまらない書類作成のために 助産師のように 難しい仕事をする人が  
 You can all give your own examples there.    	  本来の仕事ができなくなっている 例はいくらでもあります  
 So so much for the aim.    	  ですから目標も違ってきます  
 The aim, I think, is more trustworthiness,  and that is going to be different  if we are trying to be trustworthy  and communicate our trustworthiness to other people,  and if we are trying to judge whether other people  or office-holders or politicians are trustworthy.    	  どちらかというと 「信頼に足ること」を目標とすべきで 信頼に足るように努めることや 信頼に足るということを 伝えようとしたり 他人や 役人 政治家が信頼に足るか 判断することは 目標として変わってくるわけです  
 It's not easy. It is judgment, and simple reaction,  attitudes, don't do adequately here.    	  これは簡単ではありません 判断の問題であり 単純な反応や態度以上のものなのです  
 Now thirdly, the task.    	  さて三つ目は 課題です  
 Calling the task rebuilding trust, I think,  also gets things backwards.    	  信頼の再構築を 課題に設定すると これまた逆戻りです  
 It suggests that you and I should rebuild trust.    	  あなたと私が信頼を再構築する ということでしょうが  
 Well, we can do that for ourselves.    	  まぁ 自分に対してはできますね  
 We can rebuild a bit of trustworthiness.    	  自分の信頼性を高めることはできます  
 We can do it two people together trying to improve trust.    	  二人の人間が ともに それぞれの信頼性を高めることはできます  
 But trust, in the end, is distinctive  because it's given by other people.    	  しかし信頼というのは やはり独特です 人から得るものですからね  
 You can't rebuild what other people give you.    	  人からもらうものを 再構築することはできません  
 You have to give them the basis  for giving you their trust.    	  信頼をもらえるだけの基盤を 相手に与えなければなりません  
 So you have to, I think, be trustworthy.    	  だから あなた自身が信頼に足らないといけません  
 And that, of course, is because you can't fool  all of the people all of the time, usually.    	  だって 当たり前ですが 常にすべての人を だますことは 通常 無理でしょう  
 But you also have to provide usable evidence that you are trustworthy.    	  ですが あなた自身が信頼に足るという  
 How to do it?    	  有用な証拠が必要です どうすればいいのでしょうか  
 Well every day, all over the place, it's being done  by ordinary people, by officials, by institutions,  quite effectively.    	  実は 毎日 あらゆるところで 普通の人も 役人も 組織も とても効果的にやっていることなんですよ 普通の人も 役人も 組織も とても効果的にやっていることなんですよ  
 Let me give you a simple commercial example.    	  簡単な商売の例を出しましょう  
 The shop where I buy my socks says I may take them back,  and they don't ask any questions.    	  私が靴下を買うお店では 理由を言わずに 返品することができます  
 They take them back and give me the money  or give me the pair of socks of the color I wanted.    	  商品を返すと 代金をくれるか 私が欲しかった色の靴下と替えてくれます  
 That's super. I trust them  because they have made themselves vulnerable to me.    	  すごいでしょう　信頼できるお店です だって私を優位に立たせてくれているんですから  
 I think there's a big lesson in that.    	  ここに大事なレッスンがあります  
 If you make yourself vulnerable to the other party,  then that is very good evidence that you are trustworthy  and you have confidence in what you are saying.    	  相手を優位に立たせることは 自分が信頼に足る人間であり 言っていることに自信があるという証拠です  
 So in the end, I think what we are aiming for  is not very difficult to discern.    	  つまるところ 私たちが目指すべきことは 理解に難くはありません  
 It is relationships in which people are trustworthy  and can judge when and how the other person  is trustworthy. So the moral of all this is,  we need to think much less about trust,  let alone about attitudes of trust  detected or mis-detected by opinion polls,  much more about being trustworthy,  and how you give people adequate, useful  and simple evidence that you're trustworthy.    	  目指すべきは 互いが信頼に足る人間であり いつ どのように相手が信頼に足るのかを 判断できる人間関係です いつ どのように相手が信頼に足るのかを 判断できる人間関係です 大事なことは 考えるべきは信頼ではなく― ましてや世論調査に現れる 間違った信頼度ではなく 信頼に足る人間であること について である ということです 信頼に足る人間であること について である ということです そして人に対して あなたが信頼に足るという 十分かつ有用な 分かりやすい証拠をいかに与えるか ということです  
 Thanks.    	  ありがとうございました  
 Throughout the history of computers  we've been striving to shorten the gap between us  and digital information,  the gap between our physical world  and the world in the screen  where our imagination can go wild.    	  コンピューターが誕生して以来 人間とデジタルデータとの 「壁」を減らす努力が― 積み重ねられました 物体が存在する現実世界と 画面の中の世界との壁です 画面ならば 想像を自由に 膨らませられますね  
 And this gap has become shorter,  shorter, and even shorter,  and now this gap is shortened down  to less than a millimeter,  the thickness of a touch-screen glass,  and the power of computing  has become accessible to everyone.    	  そして 壁は少しずつ薄くなっていきました どんどん薄くなって ついに 極薄になりました わずか １ミリ以下になり 画面のガラスだけです コンピューターの力を 誰でも簡単に使えるようになりました  
 But I wondered, what if there could be no boundary at all?    	  では仮に 壁が全然なくなれば どうなるでしょう  
 I started to imagine what this would look like.    	  どんなことができるのか 想像するようになりました  
 First, I created this tool  which penetrates into the digital space,  so when you press it hard on the screen,  it transfers its physical body into pixels.    	  最初は このツールを作りました デジタル空間側へ 突き抜けるペンです スクリーンに強く押し付けると 物理的に縮んだ部分が 画面の中にピクセルとなって表示されます  
 Designers can materialize their ideas  directly in 3D,  and surgeons can practice on virtual organs  underneath the screen.    	  デザイナーは 3D プリンターで アイデアをすぐに 実体化できます 外科医なら 画面の中の「仮想臓器」で 手技の練習ができます  
 So with this tool, this boundary has been broken.    	  このツールを使って このとおり 「壁」をなくすことができました  
 But our two hands still remain outside the screen.    	  ただし これでもまだ 両手は画面の外にあります  
 How can you reach inside and interact  with the digital information  using the full dexterity of our hands?    	  画面の中へ 手を入れられないでしょうか？ デジタルデータの操作を― 直接 両手で行うには どうすればいいでしょう？  
 At Microsoft Applied Sciences,  along with my mentor Cati Boulanger,  I redesigned the computer  and turned a little space above the keyboard  into a digital workspace.    	  マイクロソフトの研究部門 ASG で メンターのカティと 新種のコンピューターを 共同で設計しました キーボードの上のスペースを “デジタル作業空間”にしました  
 By combining a transparent display and depth cameras  for sensing your fingers and face,  now you can lift up your hands from the keyboard  and reach inside this 3D space  and grab pixels with your bare hands.    	  透ける画面と デプスカメラを組み合わせて 操作者の指や顔を認識します キーボードに触れずに 操作ができます 3D 空間の中へ手を入れて ピクセルも 素手でつかめます  
   Because windows and files have a position in the real space,  selecting them is as easy as grabbing a book off your shelf.    	  （拍手） ウィンドウとファイルは 空間の中に浮かんでいます ファイルを選ぶのは 棚から本を取るような 簡単な操作です  
 Then you can flip through this book  while highlighting the lines, words  on the virtual touch pad below each floating window.    	  選んだ本のページを めくりながら 下の仮想タッチパッドを使って 行や語句を選ぶこともできます  
 Architects can stretch or rotate the models  with their two hands directly.    	  建築物のモデルを じかに両手で引き延ばしたり― 回転させたりすることもできます  
 So in these examples,  we are reaching into the digital world.    	  ここまでの例は― デジタルの世界に 人間が入ろうとする試みでした  
 But how about reversing its role  and having the digital information reach us instead?    	  ここで 発想を逆転させましょう デジタルデータを画面から飛び出させて 人間に近づけてもいいのでは？  
 I'm sure many of us have had the experience  of buying and returning items online.    	  ネットで買い物をして― 予想と違ったので 返品した経験はないですか？  
 But now you don't have to worry about it.    	  もう気にしなくてもよくなります  
 What I got here is an online augmented fitting room.    	  ここで「拡張試着室」をお見せしましょう 着けているイメージを  
 This is a view that you get from  head-mounted or see-through display  when the system understands the geometry of your body.    	  こんな風に見ることができます 空間上の位置を システムが認識して ヘッド・マウント・ディスプレー またはシー・スルーの画面に合成して表示されます  
 Taking this idea further, I started to think,  instead of just seeing these pixels in our space,  how can we make it physical  so that we can touch and feel it?    	  このアイデアを もっとふくらませようと考えました ピクセルを触ることができる空間に 単に表示するだけでなく― 実体を持たせられないか？ そうすれば 触ったり 感じたりすることができます  
 What would such a future look like?    	  これが実現したら どんな未来になるだろう？  
 At MIT Media Lab, along with my advisor Hiroshi Ishii  and my collaborator Rehmi Post,  we created this one physical pixel.    	  MIT のメディアラボで 相談役の石井 裕さんやー 共同研究者のレミ・ポストと一緒に ピクセルを実体化しました  
 Well, in this case, this spherical magnet  acts like a 3D pixel in our space,  which means that both computers and people  can move this object to anywhere  within this little 3D space.    	  今回 この球形の磁石は 私たちが作り出した空間の中で 自由に動くピクセルとして 振る舞います コンピューター側からも操作できて 手でも動かせます この小さな空間内なら どこへでも移動できます  
 What we did was essentially canceling gravity  and controlling the movement by combining  magnetic levitation and mechanical actuation  and sensing technologies.    	  私たちがここで実現したことは 基本的に物体への重力を打ち消して 動きを制御することでした 手段としては 磁力による浮揚と機械的作動と― 動作検知の技術を組み合わせました  
 And by digitally programming the object,  we are liberating the object from constraints  of time and space, which means that now,  human motions can be recorded and played back  and left permanently in the physical world.    	  物体制御用のプログラムを 作ることで 時間と空間の制約から 物体が解放されます つまり こんなことができるようになります 人間の動きを記録して その動きを再現できます また 現実の世界の動きとして いつまでも残しておけます  
 So choreography can be taught physically over distance  and Michael Jordan's famous shooting can be replicated  over and over as a physical reality.    	  すると ダンスの振付を 遠い場所からでも教えてもらえるし 名選手の伝説のシュートも 再現できます 映像ではなく実体をもった動きとして 何度でも再現できます  
 Students can use this as a tool  to learn about the complex concepts  such as planetary motion, physics,  and unlike computer screens or textbooks,  this is a real, tangible experience  that you can touch and feel, and it's very powerful.    	  これを学生の教材に応用すれば 複雑な概念も分かりやすくなります 例えば 惑星の動きや 物理の分野が考えられます また コンピューターの画面や 教科書と違って 立体なら 現実感のある体験ができます 触ったり感じたりしたことから 得る印象は 強烈です  
 And what's more exciting  than just turning what's currently in the computer physical  is to start imagining how programming the world  will alter even our daily physical activities.    	  実は コンピューターの中にあるー データを実体化することよりも 楽しみなことがあります 新しい種類の世界を プログラムすることで 身体を健康に保つ運動のやり方すら 変わりそうだと想像することです  
   As you can see, the digital information  will not just show us something  but it will start directly acting upon us  as a part of our physical surroundings  without disconnecting ourselves from our world.    	   お見せしたとおり デジタルな情報は 物体に変えられます 画面の中だけの存在ではありません 私たちの日常生活に溶け込めます 人間が画面にかじりついて 現実を忘れる必要はなくなります  
 Today, we started by talking about the boundary,  but if we remove this boundary,  the only boundary left is our imagination.    	  今日は デジタル世界と現実の間の 壁の話から始めましたが この壁を 取り除いてしまえば 残る壁は 私たちが抱く 想像力の限界だけかもしれません  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 So I was trained to become a gymnast  for two years in Hunan, China in the 1970s.    	  私は体操選手になるためのトレーニングを 1970年代の2年間 中国の湖南省で受けていました  
 When I was in the first grade, the government  wanted to transfer me to a school for athletes,  all expenses paid.    	  私が一年生のとき 政府は 体育学校へ私を転校させようとしました しかも無償で  
 But my tiger mother said, "No."    	  でも 厳格な母は「それは許しません」と  
 My parents wanted me to become  an engineer like them.    	  両親は私に 彼らと同じ エンジニアになるよう言いました  
 After surviving the Cultural Revolution,  they firmly believed there's only one sure way to happiness:  a safe and well-paid job.    	  文化大革命を生き延びた後 彼らが 幸せになる唯一の道と かたくなに信じたのが 安定した高収入な職でした  
 It is not important if I like the job or not.    	  私がその仕事を好むかどうかは 重要ではありません  
 But my dream was to become a Chinese opera singer.    	  でも 私の夢は中国戯曲の歌手になることでした  
 That is me playing my imaginary piano.    	  これは想像でピアノを弾いている私です  
 An opera singer must start training young  to learn acrobatics,  so I tried everything I could to go to opera school.    	  戯曲の歌手になるには 子どもの頃から 曲芸の訓練が必要で 私は戯曲の学校に行けるよう あらゆる手を尽くしました  
 I even wrote to the school principal  and the host of a radio show.    	  校長先生やラジオDJにさえ 思いを伝えました  
 But no adults liked the idea.    	  ただ 大人は誰も私の考えに賛成しませんでした  
 No adults believed I was serious.    	  誰も私が真剣であることを信じませんでした  
 Only my friends supported me, but they were kids,  just as powerless as I was.    	  友達だけが私を応援してくれましたが 彼らはまだ子どもで 私同様 力不足でした  
 So at age 15, I knew I was too old to be trained.    	  そして 15歳になり 訓練を始めるには 遅すぎる年齢になりました  
 My dream would never come true.    	  私の夢はもう叶うことがありません  
 I was afraid that for the rest of my life  some second-class happiness  would be the best I could hope for.    	  私は怖くなりました 残りの人生で望めるのが 二流の幸せでしかないなんて でも それには堪えられませんでした  
 So I was determined to find another calling.    	  なので 私は他の夢を探すことに決めました  
 Nobody around to teach me? Fine.    	  夢を私に教えてくれる人はいません  
 I turned to books.    	  そこで 私は本に頼りました  
 I satisfied my hunger for parental advice  from this book by a family of writers and musicians.["Correspondence in the Family of Fou Lei"]  I found my role model of an independent woman  when Confucian tradition requires obedience.["Jane Eyre"]  And I learned to be efficient from this book.["Cheaper by the Dozen"]  And I was inspired to study abroad after reading these.    	  私は両親の教えに対する飢えを 作家と音楽家の一家による この本で満たしました [ 『君よ弦外の音を聴け』 ] 儒教では従順さが求められる中 私が目指すべき 自立した女性像を示してくれたのは この本 [『ジェーン・エア』] そして効率の大切さを学んだのは この本 [ 『一ダースなら安くなる』 ] これらを読んだ後 海外留学することを決めました  
 ["Complete Works of Sanmao" ] ["Lessons From History" by Nan Huaijin]  I came to the U.S. in 1995,  so which books did I read here first?    	  [『三毛全集』三毛 ] [『歴史から学ぶ』南怀瑾 ] 私は1995年にアメリカに来ました ここに来て初めて読んだ本は何か？  
 Books banned in China, of course.    	  もちろん 中国では販売が禁じられていた本  
 "The Good Earth" is about Chinese peasant life.    	  『大地』には中国の農民の 生活が描かれています  
 That's just not convenient for propaganda. Got it.    	  これはプロパガンダには都合が悪いですよね  
 The Bible is interesting, but strange.    	  聖書はおもしろい けど変わってる  
   That's a topic for a different day.    	   これは また別の機会に話しましょう  
 "You shall honor your father and mother."    	  ただ「あなたの父と母を尊敬しなさい」という  
 "Honor," I said. "That's so different,  and better, than obey."    	  十戒の中の第五戒は私を変えました 「尊敬って 服従とは全然違うし  
 So it becomes my tool to climb out  of this Confucian guilt trap  and to restart my relationship with my parents.    	  ずっと良い」と私は思いました これは 儒教の教えに背く罪悪感から私を解放し 私の両親との関係をやり直す きっかけを作りました  
 Encountering a new culture also started my habit  of comparative reading.    	  また 新しい文化との出会いから 比較読書の習慣を始めました  
 It offers many insights.    	  これは多くの洞察を与えてくれます  
 For example, I found this map out of place at first  because this is what Chinese students grew up with.    	  たとえば 私は最初 この地図はおかしいと思っていました これが中国の学生が使用するものだからです  
 It had never occurred to me,  China doesn't have to be at the center of the world.    	  私は知りませんでした 中国が世界の中心にある必要はないことを  
 A map actually carries somebody's view.    	  地図は誰かの視点で書かれているのです  
 Comparative reading actually is nothing new.    	  比較読書は新しいものではありません  
 It's a standard practice in the academic world.    	  学問の世界では標準的な方法です  
 There are even research fields  such as comparative religion and comparative literature.    	  研究分野として 比較宗教学や 比較文学などさえあります  
 Compare and contrast gives scholars  a more complete understanding of a topic.    	  比較と対照により ある内容を より完璧に理解できます  
 So I thought, well, if comparative reading  works for research, why not do it in daily life too?    	  そこで 研究に活用されている 比較読書を日常生活にも活かせないかと考え  
 So I started reading books in pairs.    	  2冊の本をペアで読むことを始めました  
 ["Benjamin Franklin" by Walter Isaacson]["John Adams" by David McCullough] --  who are involved in the same event,  or friends with shared experiences.    	  これらの本には [ 『ベンジャミン・フランクリン』] [『ジョン・アダムズ』] 同じ出来事に巻き込まれた人々や 経験を共有した仲間について書かれています  
 ["Personal History" by Katharine Graham]["The Snowball: Warren Buffett and the Business of Life," by Alice Schroeder]  I also compare the same stories in different genres --   [Holy Bible: King James Version]["Lamb" by Chrisopher Moore] --  or similar stories from different cultures,  as Joseph Campbell did in his wonderful book.["The Power of Myth" by Joseph Campbell]  For example, both the Christ and the Buddha  went through three temptations.    	  [『キャサリン・グラハム わが人生』] [『スノーボール: ウォーレン・バフェット伝』] 私はまた異なるジャンルの同じ物語を比較しました  [『欽定訳聖書』] [『子羊』] 異なる文化の似た物語も比較しました ジョーゼフ・キャンベルの素晴らしい本のように [『神話の力』] 例えば キリストと仏陀はともに 3つの誘惑を乗り越えました  
 For the Christ, the temptations  are economic, political and spiritual.    	  キリストの言う誘惑は 経済 政治 精神  
 For the Buddha, they are all psychological:  lust, fear and social duty -- interesting.    	  仏陀は 全て心理的なもので 欲望 恐怖 社会的義務 これは興味深い  
 So if you know a foreign language, it's also fun  to read your favorite books in two languages.    	  外国語を学びたいのであれば あなたの大好きな本を 2つの言語で読むこともお勧めです [『荘子の方法』] [『老子: 流れる水の如し』]  
 ["The Way of Chuang Tzu" Thomas Merton]["Tao: The Watercourse Way" Alan Watts]  Instead of lost in translation, I found there is much to gain.    	  2つの言語で読むこともお勧めです [『荘子の方法』] [『老子: 流れる水の如し』] 翻訳の中でが失われるものがある代わりに 得るものも多くありました  
 For example, it's through translation that I realized  "happiness" in Chinese literally means "fast joy." Huh!    	  例えば 翻訳を通して 中国語で"幸せ"は 文字通り"快速の喜び"と言うことを知りました あらら  
 "Bride" in Chinese literally means "new mother." Uh-oh.    	  中国語で"花嫁"は"新しい母" おっと  
   Books have given me a magic portal to connect with people  of the past and the present.    	   本は 過去と現在をつなぐ 魔法の扉を与えてくれます  
 I know I shall never feel lonely or powerless again.    	  私は孤独や無力感を 再び感じることはありません  
 Having a dream shattered really is nothing  compared to what many others have suffered.    	  多くの人の苦しみに比べたら 夢破れることは たいしたことではありません  
 I have come to believe that coming true  is not the only purpose of a dream.    	  私は今 信じています 夢の目的は 実現することだけではないと  
 Its most important purpose is to get us in touch  with where dreams come from,  where passion comes from, where happiness comes from.    	  最も重要な目的は 夢がどこから来るか 情熱はどこから来るか 幸せはどこから来るかを 気付かせてくれることです  
 Even a shattered dream can do that for you.    	  あきらめた夢さえ 私にこれらを与えてくれます  
 So because of books, I'm here today,  happy, living again with a purpose and a clarity,  most of the time.    	  本のおかげで 私は今日ここにいて 幸せで いつも目的を持って 迷うことなく 暮らせています  
 So may books be always with you.    	  皆様のそばに本がいつもありますように  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございます  
   Thank you.   Thank you.     	   ありがとうございます  ありがとうございます   
 When I was in my 20s,  I saw my very first psychotherapy client.    	  20代のときに 私は 心理カウンセリングで 初めて患者を診ました  
 I was a Ph.D. student in clinical psychology at Berkeley.    	  当時私はUCバークレーで 臨床心理学を学ぶ博士課程の学生でした  
 She was a 26-year-old woman named Alex.    	  その患者はアレックスという 26歳の女性でした  
 Now Alex walked into her first session wearing jeans and a big slouchy top,  and she dropped onto the couch in my office  and kicked off her flats  and told me she was there to talk about guy problems.    	  初診のとき アレックスは ジーンズと ダボッとしたシャツを着て 診察室のソファーに ストンと腰掛けると ペタンとした靴を脱ぎ 男の子の問題について 相談に来たと言いました  
 Now when I heard this, I was so relieved.    	  それを聞いて 私は ほんとホッとしました  
 My classmate got an arsonist for her first client.    	  私のクラスメイトなんて 初めて診たのが放火犯だったんですから  
   And I got a twentysomething who wanted to talk about boys.    	   それに比べ 私のは　 20代女性の男の子に関する悩み相談  
 This I thought I could handle.    	  これなら 問題なくこなせる と思ったのですが  
 But I didn't handle it.    	  どうも甘く考えていたようです  
 With the funny stories that Alex would bring to session,  it was easy for me just to nod my head  while we kicked the can down the road.    	  毎回 アレックスが持ち込む 愉快な話を聞き 私は彼女に同感し 問題は先送りにしていました  
 "Thirty's the new 20," Alex would say,  and as far as I could tell, she was right.    	  「30歳は昔の20歳よね」と アレックスが言えば 私もそんなものだと 思っていました  
 Work happened later, marriage happened later,  kids happened later, even death happened later.    	  就職も結婚も出産も 昔より遅くなって 死ぬことだって先になってる  
 Twentysomethings like Alex and I had nothing but time.    	  そんな20代の私やアレックスに 時間なら いくらでもありました  
 But before long, my supervisor pushed me to push Alex about her love life.    	  しかし しばらくすると 私の指導教授が恋愛に関して アレックスに とやかく 指図するようにプッシュしてきました  
 I pushed back.    	  私はこう言って 押し返しました  
 I said, "Sure, she's dating down,  she's sleeping with a knucklehead,  but it's not like she's going to marry the guy."    	  「彼女が 釣り合わない人と付き合って バカな男と寝ているのは確かですが その人と結婚する というわけでもないでしょう」  
 And then my supervisor said,  "Not yet, but she might marry the next one.    	  すると指導教授はこう言いました 「今は大丈夫でも 次の彼とは結婚するかもしれない  
 Besides, the best time to work on Alex's marriage  is before she has one."    	  とにかく アレックスが 結婚を考えるのは 結婚するような相手に会う前が 最適なんです」  
 That's what psychologists call an "Aha!" moment.    	  心理学者が「アハ体験」と呼ぶ瞬間です  
 That was the moment I realized, 30 is not the new 20.    	  この瞬間 30歳が昔の20歳では 無いことを悟りました  
 Yes, people settle down later than they used to,  but that didn't make Alex's 20s a developmental downtime.    	  確かに 身を固めるのは 昔よりも遅くなりましたが だからと言って アレックスの20代が 自己実現の努力をやめて良い時期になったわけではなく  
 That made Alex's 20s a developmental sweet spot,  and we were sitting there, blowing it.    	  むしろ遅くなったことで 自己実現に格好の時期となったのに 私たちはその時期を 無為に浪費していたのです そのとき私が悟ったのは  
 That was when I realized that this sort of benign neglect  was a real problem, and it had real consequences,  not just for Alex and her love life  but for the careers and the families and the futures  of twentysomethings everywhere.    	  アレックスと彼女の恋愛に限らず 20代の若者全般が キャリアや家族 未来などについても こんな風に静観して過ごすのが 真の問題で 重大な影響を及ぼしているということです 現在 アメリカには 20代が5000万人います  
 There are 50 million twentysomethings in the United States right now.    	  アメリカ人口の15%を対象とした 話をしているわけですが  
 We're talking about 15 percent of the population,  or 100 percent if you consider  that no one's getting through adulthood without going through their 20s first.    	  20代を経験もせずに大人になる人など いないことを鑑みれば 100%の人が該当することになります  
 Raise your hand if you're in your 20s.    	  現在20代の方は手を挙げて？  
 I really want to see some twentysomethings here.    	  何人かいると良いのですが  
 Oh, yay! You are all awesome.    	  あっいますね！素晴らしいです  
 If you work with twentysomethings, you love a twentysomething,  you're losing sleep over twentysomethings, I want to see —  Okay. Awesome, twentysomethings really matter.    	  20代の人と仕事で関わったり 20代の人と付き合っている方 20代の人を心配して夜も眠れない方は？ どうぞ手を挙げて ありがとう 素晴らしいです 20代が本当に重要ということです  
 So, I specialize in twentysomethings because I believe  that every single one of those 50 million twentysomethings  deserves to know what psychologists, sociologists, neurologists and fertility specialists  already know:  that claiming your 20s is one of the simplest,  yet most transformative, things you can do  for work, for love, for your happiness,  maybe even for the world.    	  そこで私は20代を専門としています 5000万人にも上る20代の皆に 心理学者 社会学者 神経学者 生殖受胎の専門家には 既に常識となっていることを 知ってもらいたいからです 色々な方法がありますが 20代を有効に活かすのは 最も単純ながら 最も影響力を持っていることの１つです 仕事 恋愛 幸福に関して そして場合によっては 世界への貢献の可能性さえも 決めるのです  
 This is not my opinion. These are the facts.    	  これは私個人の意見ではなく 事実なのです  
 We know that 80 percent of life's most defining moments  take place by age 35.    	  人生を決めてしまうような 出来事の80%が 35歳までに起こることが知られています  
 That means that eight out of 10  of the decisions and experiences and "Aha!" moments  that make your life what it is  will have happened by your mid-30s.    	  つまり人生を決定付ける — 重要な決断 経験 アハ体験の 10個中８個は 30代半ばまでに起こるのです  
 People who are over 40, don't panic.    	  40歳以上の方でも 取り乱さないで！  
 This crowd is going to be fine, I think.    	  会場の皆さんは 大丈夫だと思います  
 We know that the first 10 years of a career  has an exponential impact on how much money you're going to earn.    	  キャリアの最初の10年間が その後稼ぐであろう金額に 指数関数的に影響します  
 We know that more than half of Americans  are married or are living with or dating their future partner by 30.    	  アメリカ人の半数以上が 30歳までに結婚するか 将来のパートナーと付き合うか同棲しています  
 We know that the brain caps off  its second and last growth spurt in your 20s as it rewires itself for adulthood,  which means that whatever it is you want to change about yourself,  now is the time to change it.    	  脳は 20代のうちに成人期に向けて 配線し直されると同時に 人生最後の二回目の成長をし ぐんと伸びて仕上がります つまり 自分を変えたいと思うなら 20代こそがその時なのです  
 We know that personality changes more during your 20s  than at any other time in life,  and we know that female fertility peaks at age 28,  and things get tricky after age 35. So your 20s are the time to educate yourself  about your body and your options.    	  性格についても 20代ほど 変化を見せる時期はありません 女性の妊娠しやすさも 28歳でピークを迎え 35歳以降は 色々と 難しいことが出てきます 体についても 人生の選択肢についても  
 So when we think about child development,  we all know that the first five years are a critical period for language and attachment in the brain.    	  よく理解すべき時期は 20代なのです 子供の発達においては 言語能力や愛着や 脳が育つ為に 最初の５年間が臨界期だということは 広く知られています  
 It's a time when your ordinary, day-to-day life  has an inordinate impact on who you will become.    	  その期間は 何の変哲も無い日常生活が 人格形成にことのほか大きな影響を与える期間です  
 But what we hear less about is that there's such a thing  as adult development,  and our 20s are that critical period of adult development.    	  しかし 成人期の発達なんて あまり話題となりません 20代は成人発達の重要な 期間であるにも関わらずです  
 But this isn't what twentysomethings are hearing.    	  しかし20代の人は そんなこと耳にしないわけです  
 Newspapers talk about the changing timetable of adulthood.    	  ニュースになるのは 人生設計の時期が変化してきたとか  
 Researchers call the 20s an extended adolescence.    	  研究者でさえ 20代はまだモラトリアム期間だとか  
 Journalists coin silly nicknames for twentysomethings  like "twixters" and "kidults."    	  ジャーナリストも20代に 「パラサイトシングル」や 「キダルト」といった ふざけたあだ名を付けています  
  It's true!    	  本当です  
 As a culture, we have trivialized  what is actually the defining decade of adulthood.    	  文化として 私たちは成人期を形成する上で 最も重要な十年間を軽視してきました  
 Leonard Bernstein said that to achieve great things,  you need a plan and not quite enough time.    	  レオナルド・バーンスタインはこう言いました 偉業を成し遂げるには 計画と焦りが必要だと  
  Isn't that true?    	  まさしく真実ではありませんか？  
 when you pat a twentysomething on the head and you say,  "You have 10 extra years to start your life"?    	  20代の頭をなでながら 「人生を始めるにはあと10年ある」 と言ったら 何が起こるでしょう？  
 Nothing happens.    	  全く何も起こりません  
 You have robbed that person of his urgency and ambition,  and absolutely nothing happens.    	  その人から切迫感と大志を奪うだけで 絶対に何も起こりません  
 And then every day, smart, interesting twentysomethings  like you or like your sons and daughters  come into my office and say things like this:  "I know my boyfriend's no good for me,  but this relationship doesn't count. I'm just killing time."    	  そして毎日 皆さんのお子さんや 皆さん自身のような 賢く 興味深い20代の人たちが 私の診察室に来てこんなことを言うんです 「彼は私にはふさわしくないって 分かってるけど 真剣な交際までの 時間つぶしだからいいでしょ」  
 Or they say, "Everybody says as long as I get started  on a career by the time I'm 30, I'll be fine."    	  または「30歳になるまでに働き始めれば 大丈夫だよと 皆が言うんです」と  
 But then it starts to sound like this:  "My 20s are almost over, and I have nothing to show for myself.    	  しかし そのうち こんな風に言い始めます 「もう20代も終わりかけなのに 何も自慢できることがないんです  
 I had a better résumé the day after I graduated from college."    	  大学を卒業した直後の方が 履歴書の見栄えが良かった」  
 And then it starts to sound like this:  "Dating in my 20s was like musical chairs.    	  さらに進むと そのうち こんな風に言い始めます 「20代の私のデートは イス取りゲームの様でした  
 Everybody was running around and having fun,  but then sometime around 30 it was like the music turned off  and everybody started sitting down.    	  色々な人と楽しく 付き合っていたんですが 30歳頃になると まるで音楽が止まった時のように みんなイスに着席し始めたんです  
 I didn't want to be the only one left standing up,  so sometimes I think I married my husband  because he was the closest chair to me at 30."    	  私だけ座り損ねるなんてイヤでした だから時々こう思うんです 夫と結婚したのは 30歳のときに一番近くにあった イスが夫だったからだと」  
 Where are the twentysomethings here?    	  さっきの20代の方は どこですか？  
 Do not do that.    	  そんな風には しちゃダメよ  
   Okay, now that sounds a little flip, but make no mistake, the stakes are very high.    	  少し軽々しい言い方ですが 間違ってはダメです 利害はとても大きいんですから  
 When a lot has been pushed to your 30s,  there is enormous thirtysomething pressure  to jump-start a career, pick a city, partner up,  and have two or three kids in a much shorter period of time.    	  多くの物事を30代まで後回しにすると 30代でのプレッシャーは 巨大なものになります キャリア構築を始め 住む街を決め パートナーを探して 後回しにした分 さらに短い期間に ２〜３人の子供を出産することになります  
 Many of these things are incompatible,  and as research is just starting to show,  simply harder and more stressful to do all at once in our 30s.    	  これらの多くは 同時にはできません ごく最近 研究で 明らかになってきたように 全てを30代の間にまとめて行うのは 単純に困難かつ多くのストレスが 伴うことなんです  
 The post-millennial midlife crisis isn't buying a red sports car.    	  2000年以降の中年に起こる危機は 真っ赤なスポーツカーを 買う形では現れず  
 It's realizing you can't have that career you now want.    	  望むキャリアを歩めないということや  
 It's realizing you can't have that child you now want,  or you can't give your child a sibling.    	  子供が欲しくなったのに産めなかったり 子供に兄弟を作ってあげられないことに 気付くことで訪れます  
 Too many thirtysomethings and fortysomethings  look at themselves, and at me, sitting across the room,  and say about their 20s,  "What was I doing? What was I thinking?"    	  あまりに多くの 30代 40代の人たちが 診察室の反対側に座りながら 自分と 私を見比べて 自身の20代に関して 決まってこう言います 「私は今まで一体何をしてたの？ 一体何を考えてたの？」と言います  
 I want to change what twentysomethings are doing and thinking.    	  私は 20代の人たちの 思考や行動を変えたいんです  
 Here's a story about how that can go.    	  その変化を示すのに  
 It's a story about a woman named Emma.    	  打ってつけの話があります エマという女性の話です  
 At 25, Emma came to my office  because she was, in her words, having an identity crisis.    	  エマは25歳の時 診察室にやって来ました 彼女の言葉を借りれば 自己喪失に陥っていたからです  
 She said she thought she might like to work in art or entertainment,  but she hadn't decided yet,  so she'd spent the last few years waiting tables instead.    	  芸術・娯楽の分野で働くのが いいのかなと思いつつも まだ決心がつかず その代わり 数年間 ウェイトレスとして 働いて来たと語ってくれました  
 Because it was cheaper, she lived with a boyfriend  who displayed his temper more than his ambition.    	  当時エマは 安く済むからという理由で 将来の夢があるわけでもない 気性の荒い彼氏と同棲していました  
 And as hard as her 20s were,  her early life had been even harder.    	  彼女の20代も困難なものでしたが それ以前の人生はもっと 困難に溢れていました  
 She often cried in our sessions,  but then would collect herself by saying,  "You can't pick your family, but you can pick your friends."    	  診察中 何度も涙を流しましたが 「家族は選べないけど 友達は選べる」 とそのたびに言って 気持ちを 落ち着かせていました  
 Well one day, Emma comes in and she hangs her head in her lap,  and she sobbed for most of the hour.    	  ある日 エマがやって来て ひざを抱え うなだれて 診察時間の大半を むせび泣いていました  
 She'd just bought a new address book,  and she'd spent the morning filling in her many contacts,  but then she'd been left staring at that empty blank  that comes after the words  "In case of emergency, please call ..."    	  彼女はちょうど新しい連絡帳を買って その朝は 多数ある連絡先を 書き込みながら過ごしていましたが 「緊急の場合 こちらに連絡してください」 という言葉に続く空欄を じっとただ見続けるだけで 埋められなかったんです  
 She was nearly hysterical when she looked at me and said,  "Who's going to be there for me if I get in a car wreck?    	  彼女はヒステリー気味に 私を見て こう言いました 「ひどい自動車事故に遭ったら 誰が来てくれるの？  
 Who's going to take care of me if I have cancer?"    	  ガンにかかったら誰が面倒を 見てくれるって言うの？」  
 Now in that moment, it took everything I had  not to say, "I will."    	  その瞬間 「私がするわ」と言いたいのを 必死にこらえました  
 But what Emma needed wasn't some therapist who really, really cared.    	  エマが必要としていたのは 親身に面倒をみてくれる セラピストではありません  
 Emma needed a better life, and I knew this was her chance.    	  必要なのは素敵な人生で これが人生を考える転機になると思いました  
 I had learned too much since I first worked with Alex  to just sit there while Emma's defining decade  went parading by.    	  アレックスの初診以来 多くを学んでいたから エマが大切な十年間を ムダにするのを 何もせず眺めているわけには いきませんでした  
 So over the next weeks and months,  I told Emma three things  that every twentysomething, male or female,  deserves to hear.    	  その後 数週間 数ヶ月にわたって 私はエマに 男女問わず 全ての20代が 知らされるべき ３つのことを伝えました  
 First, I told Emma to forget about having an identity crisis  and get some identity capital.    	  まずはアイデンティティ・クライシスに 陥っていることを忘れて 何かアイデンティティ・キャピタルを築く よう伝えました  
 By "get identity capital,"  I mean do something that adds value to who you are.    	  「アイデンティティ・キャピタルを築く」 とは 自身の価値を高めるようなことを するという意味です  
 Do something that's an investment  in who you might want to be next.    	  自分の将来の― 理想像に近付くために 自分への投資になる何かをすることです  
 I didn't know the future of Emma's career,  and no one knows the future of work,  but I do know this: Identity capital begets identity capital.    	  エマの将来のキャリアは 私には分からなかったし 未来の仕事は誰にも分かりませんが これだけは確かです アイデンティティ・キャピタルは アイデンティティ・キャピタルをどんどん呼び込みます  
 So now is the time for that cross-country job,  that internship, that startup you want to try.    	  つまり 今こそが やってみたいと思っていた 国際的な仕事やインターンシップや 起業などをすべき時なのです  
 I'm not discounting twentysomething exploration here,  but I am discounting exploration that's not supposed to count,  which, by the way, is not exploration.    	  20代に色々と模索することを 軽視しているわけではありませんよ ただ 人生に意味をもたらさないような模索を 軽視しているんです ただそれだと模索とさえも 呼べないものです  
 That's procrastination.    	  それは先送りしているだけに 過ぎません  
 I told Emma to explore work and make it count.    	  私はエマに職を模索し また目的に合うものを選ぶようにと伝えました  
 Second, I told Emma that the urban tribe is overrated.    	  ２つ目として エマに伝えたのは 都会派仲間の生き方は過大評価されているということ  
 Best friends are great for giving rides to the airport,  but twentysomethings who huddle together with like-minded peers  limit who they know,  what they know, how they think,  how they speak, and where they work.    	  親友は親切にも空港まで 送ってくれたりしますが 20代の人が同じ考えの人だけと つるんでいると 友人が知っていることや 知っている人 友人の考え方や話し方や 友人が勤務する場所などが 限られた範囲だけになってしまいます  
 That new piece of capital, that new person to date  almost always comes from outside the inner circle.    	  新しく自分の資本になるものや 新しい交際相手は 必ずと言っていい程 内輪のサークルの外にいます  
 New things come from what are called our weak ties,  our friends of friends of friends.    	  新たな物事は 友人の友人の友人のような いわゆる ゆるい繋がりから やって来ます  
 So yes, half of twentysomethings are un- or under-employed.    	  そう 20代の半数は 無職か不完全雇用の状態ですが  
 But half aren't,  and weak ties are how you get yourself into that group.    	  半数はそうではありません ゆるい繋がりこそが 後者の集団に入る方法です  
 Half of new jobs are never posted,  so reaching out to your neighbor's boss is how you get that unposted job.    	  仕事の半分は 公募されないため 近所の人の上司に 接触することが 公募されない職に就く 手段になります  
 It's not cheating. It's the science of how information spreads.    	  ズルではありません 情報はこのように広がるものだからです  
 Last but not least, Emma believed  that you can't pick your family, but you can pick your friends.    	  最後に忘れてはならないのが エマが信じていた「家族は選べないが 友達は選べる」という事に関して  
 Now this was true for her growing up,  but as a twentysomething, soon Emma would pick her family  when she partnered with someone and created a family of her own.    	  エマが育った環境では その通りでしたが 20代なので もうじき エマは家族を選ぶでしょう パートナーと結婚し 自分自身の家族を築き上げるのです  
 I told Emma the time to start picking your family is now.    	  エマには 今こそが家族を 選び始めるときだと伝えました  
 Now you may be thinking that 30 is actually a better time to settle down  than 20, or even 25,  and I agree with you.    	  30歳は結婚し身を固めるのに 20歳 ひょっとしたら25歳よりも ずっと良いと思われるかもしれません それには賛成します  
 But grabbing whoever you're living with or sleeping with  when everyone on Facebook starts walking down the aisle  is not progress.    	  ただ Facebook上で 結婚報告がされ始める頃に 誰でもいいからと同棲相手や 寝た相手を捕まえようとするのは 自分を高めることにはなりません  
 The best time to work on your marriage is before you have one,  and that means being as intentional with love  as you are with work.    	  結婚に備えるのに 最適なタイミングは 適した相手に会う前です つまり 仕事と同様に 恋愛に対しても 意識して行うべきなのです  
 Picking your family is about consciously choosing  who and what you want  rather than just making it work or killing time  with whoever happens to be choosing you.    	  家族を選ぶということは たまたま自分を選んだ というだけの人と 漠然と一緒に過ごしたり 時間を潰すということではなく 誰とどのようなものを望むか 意識して選ぶことなのです  
 So what happened to Emma?    	  では エマは どうなったでしょうか？  
 Well, we went through that address book,  and she found an old roommate's cousin  who worked at an art museum in another state.    	  エマと連絡帳を 繰ってみると 別の州の美術館で働いている かつてのルームメイトの 従兄弟を見つけました ゆるい繋がりのお蔭で エマは美術館で仕事を見つけ  
 That weak tie helped her get a job there.    	  その仕事の雇用契約をきっかけに  
 That job offer gave her the reason to leave that live-in boyfriend.    	  同棲していた彼氏の元を去りました  
 Now, five years later, she's a special events planner for museums.    	  ５年経った現在では エマは 美術館の特別イベント企画を担当しています  
 She's married to a man she mindfully chose.    	  彼女は注意深く選んだ男性と結婚し 新たなキャリアを  
 She loves her new career, she loves her new family,  and she sent me a card that said,  "Now the emergency contact blanks  don't seem big enough."    	  心から気に入っていて 新たな家族を愛しています エマから届いた葉書には こう書かれています 「今では 緊急連絡先が空欄でも 狭すぎると思うようになりました」  
 Now Emma's story made that sound easy,  but that's what I love about working with twentysomethings.    	  エマとの体験談を聞くと 簡単なことに思えますが それこそが 私が20代に 向き合う中で好きなところで  
 They are so easy to help.    	  とても簡単に 救うことができます  
 Twentysomethings are like airplanes just leaving LAX,  bound for somewhere west. Right after takeoff, a slight change in course  is the difference between landing in Alaska or Fiji.    	  20代の人たちはロサンゼルス国際空港から 西のどこかに向けて 今まさに飛び立とうとする 飛行機のようなものです 離陸直後にちょっと 経路を変更するだけで 着陸地点がアラスカになったり フィジーになったりします  
 Likewise, at 21 or 25 or even 29,  one good conversation, one good break,  one good TED Talk, can have an enormous effect  across years and even generations to come.    	  同様に 21歳 25歳 もしくは29歳でも １回の素晴らしい会話や １度の転機や １つの優れたTEDトークが 何年にも または何世代にも渡って 絶大な影響を与えることができるのです  
 So here's an idea worth spreading  to every twentysomething you know.    	  これは皆さんの周りにいる 20代全員に 広める価値のあるアイデアです  
 It's as simple as what I learned to say to Alex.    	  アレックスを診た経験から 学んだ 単純なことですが  
 It's what I now have the privilege  of saying to twentysomethings like Emma every single day:  Thirty is not the new 20, so claim your adulthood,  get some identity capital, use your weak ties,  pick your family.    	  今となってはこれを エマのような20代に 毎日伝えられる立場なのは うれしいことです 今の30歳は昔の20歳に相当しません 大人として20代を有効に使い アイデンティティ・キャピタルを築き ゆるい繋がりを活かし 家族を選んで下さい  
 Don't be defined by what you didn't know  or didn't do.    	  知らなかったことや しなかったことに 縛られてはいけません  
 You're deciding your life right now.    	  皆さんは 今まさに人生を 決めているのです  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 When I was 27 years old,  I left a very demanding job in management consulting  for a job that was even more demanding: teaching.    	  27歳のとき 私は 経営コンサルの とてもきつい仕事を辞めて もっときつい仕事につきました 教師です  
 I went to teach seventh graders math  in the New York City public schools.    	  ニューヨークの公立中学校で 1年生に数学を教えました  
 And like any teacher, I made quizzes and tests.    	  先生らしく 小テストや試験を作って  
 I gave out homework assignments.    	  宿題を出しました  
 When the work came back, I calculated grades.    	  答案が戻ってくれば 成績をつけました  
 What struck me was that IQ was not the only difference  between my best and my worst students.    	  衝撃を受けたのは IQだけが 優等生と 劣等生の違いではない ということです 成績がとてもよかった生徒でも  
 Some of my strongest performers did not have stratospheric IQ scores.    	  それほど高いIQではない子もいたのです  
 Some of my smartest kids weren't doing so well.    	  頭がすごくよくても 成績の良くない子もいました  
 And that got me thinking.    	  そこで 私は考えたのです  
 The kinds of things you need to learn in seventh grade math,  sure, they're hard: ratios, decimals, the area of a parallelogram.    	  中学1年の数学で習うことは 確かに 難しい 割合 小数― 平行四辺形の面積  
 But these concepts are not impossible,  and I was firmly convinced that every one of my students  could learn the material  if they worked hard and long enough.    	  でも こうした概念の習得は 不可能なことではありません そこで 私は確信しました どの生徒も― 十分な時間をかけて 一生懸命 勉強すれば 習得できるのです  
 After several more years of teaching,  I came to the conclusion that what we need in education  is a much better understanding of students and learning  from a motivational perspective,  from a psychological perspective.    	  数年の教師生活を経て 私は ある結論にたどり着きました 教育で必要なのは 動機付け 心理学の観点から 生徒や学習について もっとよく理解することなのです  
 In education, the one thing we know how to measure best is IQ.    	  教育において 私たちが 唯一 よく知っているモノサシは  
 But what if doing well in school and in life  than your ability to learn quickly and easily?    	  IQです でも もし学校や人生でうまくやれるかが すぐに簡単に学習する能力以外に かかっているとしたら どうでしょうか？  
 So I left the classroom,  and I went to graduate school to become a psychologist.    	  だから 私は教壇を下りて 大学院に行き 心理学者になりました 様々な 超挑戦的な環境に置かれた  
 I started studying kids and adults in all kinds of super challenging settings,  and in every study my question was,  who is successful here and why?    	  子どもや大人についての 研究を始めました どの研究でも 考えていたのは 誰が成功し それはなぜか？  
 My research team and I went to West Point Military Academy.    	  私たち 研究チームは ウエストポイント陸軍士官学校に行き  
 We tried to predict which cadets  would stay in military training and which would drop out.    	  どの士官候補生が 陸軍訓練に残り 誰が中退するか 予想しようとしました  
 We went to the National Spelling Bee  and tried to predict which children would advance farthest in competition.    	  全国スペリング・コンテストでは どの子どもが 競争でより勝ち残るか 予想しようとしました  
 We studied rookie teachers working in really tough neighborhoods,  asking which teachers are still going to be here in teaching  by the end of the school year,  and of those, who will be the most effective  at improving learning outcomes for their students?    	  教育困難な地区で働く 新米教師を調べて どの教師が 学年が終わるまで 教えるのを続けていて そのうち 誰が 生徒の学習成果をあげるのに 最も成功するか 考えました  
 We partnered with private companies, asking,  which of these salespeople is going to keep their jobs?    	  民間企業とも提携して調べました どの販売員が仕事を続け  
 And who's going to earn the most money?    	  そして 誰が一番お金を稼ぐか  
 In all those very different contexts,  one characteristic emerged as a significant predictor of success.    	  こうした様々な状況において ある一つの特徴が大きく 成功を左右していました  
 And it wasn't social intelligence.    	  それは 社会的知性ではありません  
 It wasn't good looks, physical health, and it wasn't IQ.    	  ルックスでも 身体的健康でも IQでもありませんでした  
 It was grit.    	  やり抜く力です  
 Grit is passion and perseverance for very long-term goals.    	  やり抜く力とは 超長期目標に向けた 情熱や忍耐力で  
 Grit is having stamina.    	  スタミナがあることでもあります  
 Grit is sticking with your future, day in, day out,  not just for the week, not just for the month,  but for years,  and working really hard to make that future a reality.    	  やり抜く力は 明けても暮れても 自らの将来にこだわることです その週だけとか その月だけではなく 何年もの間 一生懸命に取組み その夢を 実現することです  
 Grit is living life like it's a marathon, not a sprint.    	  やり抜く力は 短距離走ではなく マラソンを走るように生きることです  
 A few years ago,  I started studying grit in the Chicago public schools.    	  数年前 シカゴの公立学校で やり抜く力の研究を始めました  
 I asked thousands of high school juniors  to take grit questionnaires,  and then waited around more than a year  to see who would graduate.    	  何千人もの高校2年生に やり抜く力に関するアンケートをして 1年間以上待って 誰が卒業するか見ました  
 Turns out that grittier kids  were significantly more likely to graduate,  even when I matched them on every characteristic I could measure,  things like family income,  standardized achievement test scores,  even how safe kids felt when they were at school.    	  結果 やり抜く力が高い方が より卒業にたどり着いていました それは 様々な数値指標を同じにして 比較したとしてもです 家族の収入や 標準学力試験の成績 学校でどれだけ安全に感じているかが 同じでもです  
 So it's not just at West Point or the National Spelling Bee that grit matters.    	  やり抜く力が重要だったのは 陸軍士官学校や  
 It's also in school,  especially for kids at risk for dropping out.    	  全国スペリング・コンテストだけでなく 学校でもです 特に 落第ギリギリの生徒にとって重要でした  
 To me, the most shocking thing about grit  is how little we know,  how little science knows, about building it.    	  私にとって やり抜く力について 最もショックだったのは やり抜く力を育てることについて 私たちも 科学も ほとんど知らないことです  
 Every day, parents and teachers ask me,  "How do I build grit in kids?    	  毎日 親御さんや先生に聞かれます 「子どものやり抜く力を どう育てるか？  
 What do I do to teach kids a solid work ethic?    	  学習意欲をどう教えるか？  
 How do I keep them motivated for the long run?"    	  どうやって 長い間 モチベーションを保たせさせるか？」  
 The honest answer is, I don't know.   What I do know is that talent doesn't make you gritty.    	  正直なところ 分かりません 分かっているのは 才能と やり抜く力は違うことです  
 Our data show very clearly  that there are many talented individuals  who simply do not follow through on their commitments.    	  私たちのデータが はっきり示す通り 才能があっても 純粋に 最後まで決めた事を やり抜けない人たちが たくさんいます  
 In fact, in our data, grit is usually unrelated  or even inversely related to measures of talent.    	  事実 データによれば やり抜く力は 才能の高さとは 通常関係ない むしろ 反比例さえするのです  
 So far, the best idea I've heard about building grit in kids  is something called "growth mindset."    	  これまで聞いた中で 子どものやり抜く力を育てるのに― 一番よいのは 「成長思考」と呼ばれるものです  
 This is an idea developed at Stanford University by Carol Dweck,  and it is the belief that the ability to learn is not fixed,  that it can change with your effort.    	  スタンフォード大学のキャロル・ドウェックが 見出したもので 成功思考とは― 学習する能力は固定しておらず 努力によって変えられる と信じることです  
 Dr. Dweck has shown  that when kids read and learn about the brain  and how it changes and grows in response to challenge,  they're much more likely to persevere when they fail,  because they don't believe that failure is a permanent condition.    	  ドウェック博士が示したのは 子どもたちが 脳の機能や 課題に対する― 脳の変化､成長について 学ぶと 失敗したときに より辛抱できるようになることです 失敗は永続的な状態でないと 信じているからです  
 So growth mindset is a great idea for building grit.    	  ですから 成長思考は やり抜く力を育てるのに とても良いのです  
 But we need more.    	  でも それだけでは足りません  
 And that's where I'm going to end my remarks,  because that's where we are.    	  私が言えるのは そこまでです 私たちは まだその段階で  
 That's the work that stands before us.    	  そこからは 今から取り組む仕事なのです  
 We need to take our best ideas, our strongest intuitions,  and we need to test them.    	  最高のアイデア 最強の直感を使って それを試してみないといけません  
 We need to measure whether we've been successful,  and we have to be willing to fail, to be wrong,  to start over again with lessons learned.    	  私たちが成功しているのか知り 失敗し 間違い そして そこから学んだことで 一から やり直さないといけないのです  
 In other words, we need to be gritty  about getting our kids grittier.    	  つまり 子どもたちの やり抜く力を高めるため 私たち自身が やり抜かないといけないんです  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 Growing up in Taiwan  as the daughter of a calligrapher,  one of my most treasured memories  was my mother showing me the beauty, the shape  and the form of Chinese characters.    	  書道家の娘として 台湾で育った私にとって 一番の宝物となっている思い出は 母が漢字の形や成り立ち そして美しさを教えてくれたことです  
 Ever since then, I was fascinated  by this incredible language.    	  それ以来 私は この素晴らしい言語に 魅了されるようになりました  
 But to an outsider, it seems to be  as impenetrable as the Great Wall of China.    	  しかし中国語は 門外漢にとっては 万里の長城のように 立ちはだかって見えることでしょう  
 Over the past few years, I've been wondering  if I can break down this wall,  so anyone who wants to understand and appreciate  the beauty of this sophisticated language could do so.    	  私がここ数年考えてきたのは この壁を壊して 誰もが この洗練された言語の美を 理解し 味わうことができるようにすることです  
 I started thinking about how a new, fast method  of learning Chinese might be useful.    	  まず考えたのは どのようにすれば 中国語を新たに速く学べるかということ  
 Since the age of five, I started to learn how to draw  every single stroke for each character  in the correct sequence.    	  私は ５歳のときから 書き順を含めて あらゆる文字に現れる 一本一本の線の書き方を 勉強し始めました その後15年間  
 I learned new characters every day  Since we only have five minutes,  it's better that we have a fast and simpler way.    	  毎日新しい漢字を習いました たった５分しかありませんので 速く簡潔にお伝えした方が良いでしょう  
 A Chinese scholar would understand 20,000 characters.    	  中国語学者は２万文字もの 漢字を知っていますが  
 You only need 1,000 to understand the basic literacy.    	  通常の読み書きには 1,000文字で十分です  
 The top 200 will allow you to comprehend  40 percent of basic literature --  enough to read road signs, restaurant menus,  to understand the basic idea of the web pages  or the newspapers.    	  特に使用頻度上位200位までで 通常使用される漢字の40%がカバーされ 道路標識やレストランのメニュー Webページや新聞記事といったものを 大まかに理解するには十分です  
 Today I'm going to start with eight  to show you how the method works.    	  今日はひとまず８文字で この方法がどんなものなのか お見せしましょう  
 You are ready?    	  準備はいいですか？  
 Open your mouth as wide as possible  until it's square.    	  口をなるべく大きく開いて 正方形にします  
 You get a mouth.    	  それが口という字です  
 This is a person going for a walk.    	  こちらは散歩に出かけている人です  
 Person.    	  「人」  
 If the shape of the fire is a person  with two arms on both sides,  as if she was yelling frantically,  "Help! I'm on fire!" --  This symbol actually is originally from the shape of the flame,  but I like to think that way. Whichever works for you.    	  火の形が ２本の腕を 両側に広げている人のようなら まるで取り乱して こう叫んでいるようです 「助けて！火事なの！」 実際この字は炎の形に由来しますが 私はそう考えるのが好きです どちらでもお好きなように  
 This is a tree.    	  こちらは木です  
 Tree.    	  「木」  
 This is a mountain.    	  こちらは山  
 The sun.    	  日  
 The moon.    	  月  
 The symbol of the door  looks like a pair of saloon doors in the wild west.    	  扉を表すこの字は 西部開拓時代の酒場のドアみたいです  
 I call these eight characters radicals.    	  これらの８文字は部首と呼ばれます  
 They are the building blocks  for you to create lots more characters.    	  このブロックを組合わせることにより もっとたくさんの字をつくることができます  
 A person.    	  人  
 If someone walks behind, that is "to follow."    	  誰かが後ろを歩いているのなら 「付いて行く」という意味の字になります  
 As the old saying goes,  two is company, three is a crowd.    	  昔からの諺にあるように ２人なら仲間 ３人なら人込み  
 If a person stretched their arms wide,  this person is saying, "It was this big."    	  人が両手を広げたら こう言っているのでしょう 「こんなにも大きいんだ」  
 The person inside the mouth, the person is trapped.    	  人が口の中に入れば その人は囚われの身  
 He's a prisoner, just like Jonah inside the whale.    	  つまり囚人です クジラに飲み込まれたヨナのように  
 One tree is a tree. Two trees together, we have the woods.    	  一本の木は木ですが ２本の木が集まると林になり  
 Three trees together, we create the forest.    	  ３本の木が集まると森になります  
 Put a plank underneath the tree, we have the foundation.    	  木の下に厚板を置くと基盤となり  
 Put a mouth on the top of the tree, that's "idiot."   Easy to remember,  since a talking tree is pretty idiotic.    	  木の上に口を乗せると 阿呆になります  分かりやすいでしょう？ しゃべる木なんてアホらしいですから  
 Remember fire?    	  火という字を憶えていますか？  
 Two fires together, I get really hot.    	  ２つ火が集まると 炎のように熱くなり  
 Three fires together, that's a lot of flames.    	  ３つ集まると たくさんの炎になります  
 Set the fire underneath the two trees, it's burning.    	  ２本の木の下に火をつけると 燃えます  
 For us, the sun is the source of prosperity.    	  私たちにとって 太陽は繁栄の源なので  
 Two suns together, prosperous.    	  日が２つで繁栄  
 Three together, that's sparkles.    	  ３つで輝きとなります  
 Put the sun and the moon shining together,  it's brightness.    	  日と月が一緒に輝くと 明るい という意味になります  
 It also means tomorrow, after a day and a night.    	  「昼と夜」が転じて 明日という意味もあります  
 The sun is coming up above the horizon. Sunrise.    	  太陽が地平線から上ってきます 日の出です  
 A door. Put a plank inside the door,  it's a door bolt.    	  扉を表す「門」という字の中に板を置くと 閂  になります  
 Put a mouth inside the door, asking questions.    	  ドアの下に口を置くと 質問をするという意味になります  
 Knock knock. Is anyone home?    	  コンコン 誰か帰って来たの？  
 This person is sneaking out of a door,  escaping, evading.    	  この人はドアからこっそり出て 逃げ隠れしようとしています  
 On the left, we have a woman.    	  左には１人の女性  
 Two women together, they have an argument.    	  ２人の女性が出会うと 口論が始まります  
   Three women together, be careful, it's adultery.    	   ３人の女性が一緒のときには ご注意下さい 姦淫です  
 So we have gone through almost 30 characters.    	  これまで約30文字見てきましたが  
 By using this method, the first eight radicals  will allow you to build 32.    	  この方法を使えば 最初の８つの部首で 32文字を憶えられます  
 The next group of eight characters  will build an extra 32.    	  これとは別に８文字を習うと また32文字憶えることができます  
 So with very little effort,  you will be able to learn a couple hundred characters,  which is the same as a Chinese eight-year-old.    	  あまり努力を要さずに 数百文字を憶えることができ ８歳の中国人にすぐに追いつけます  
 So after we know the characters, we start building phrases.    	  文字を憶えたところで 熟語の勉強を始めましょう  
 For example, the mountain and the fire together,  we have fire mountain. It's a volcano.    	  例えば 山と火が合わさると 火が出る山 つまり火山となります  
 We know Japan is the land of the rising sun.    	  日本は日の出づる国だとは よく知られたことですが  
 This is a sun placed with the origin,  because Japan lies to the east of China.    	  それは太陽の出て来る方角と関係があります 日本は中国から見て東にあるからです  
 So a sun, origin together, we build Japan.    	  太陽と起源が一緒になって 日本ができたのです  
 A person behind Japan, what do we get?    	  日本の後ろに人が付くと何になるでしょう？  
 A Japanese person.    	  日本人です  
 The character on the left is two mountains  stacked on top of each other.    	  左にある漢字は ２つの山が お互いの上に積み重なってできています  
 In ancient China, that means in exile,  because Chinese emperors, they put their political enemies  in exile beyond mountains.    	  古代中国王朝では 国外追放という 意味を持っていましたが 当時 中国の皇帝が政敵を 山の向こうの国外に 追放したことに由来します  
 Nowadays, exile has turned into getting out.    	  今日では 国外追放は 脱出という意味に転じ  
 A mouth which tells you where to get out  is an exit.    	  脱出する場所を示す口と合わせて 出口となります  
 This is a slide to remind me that I should stop talking  and get off of the stage. Thank you.    	  このスライドは 私へのリマインダーです トークを終わってステージを降りよと ありがとうございました  
 You know, my favorite part of being a dad  is the movies I get to watch.    	  私が父親として好きなことは 普段見ない映画が 見れるということ  
 I love sharing my favorite movies with my kids,  and when my daughter was four,  we got to watch "The Wizard of Oz" together.    	  私のお気に入りの映画を わが子と見るのが大好きです 娘が4歳の時 「オズの魔法使い」を見ました  
 It totally dominated her imagination for months.    	  娘は それから数か月間 完全に空想にふけていました  
 Her favorite character was Glinda, of course.    	  娘のお気に入りは もちろん グリンダ  
 It gave her a great excuse to wear a sparkly dress  and carry a wand.    	  キラキラの服を着て 杖を持ち歩くには 最高の言い訳になったわけです  
 But you watch that movie enough times,  and you start to realize how unusual it is.    	  しかし 何度も見ると 他の映画との違いが 分かるのです  
 Now we live today, and are raising our children,  in a kind of children's-fantasy-spectacular-industrial complex.    	  現代の子供たちは 迫力満点の ファンタジー映画を見て 成長します  
 But "The Wizard of Oz" stood alone.    	  しかし 「オズの魔法使い」は  
 It did not start that trend.    	  そんな映画とは違います  
 Forty years later was when the trend really caught on,  with, interestingly, another movie  that featured a metal guy  and a furry guy  rescuing a girl by dressing up as the enemy's guards.    	  40年後 ある映画と共に このトレンドが広まったのです 金属のロボットと 毛をまとったキャラクターが 敵のガード役に 変装して 姫を助け出す  
 Do you know what I'm talking about?   Yeah.    	  何の映画か分かりますよね？  もちろん  
 Now, there's a big difference between these two movies,  a couple of really big differences between "The Wizard of Oz"  and all the movies we watch today.    	  この2つの映画に 大きな違いがあるように 現代の映画と 「オズの魔法使い」には 決定的な違いがあります  
 One is there's very little violence in "The Wizard of Oz."    	  まず 「オズの魔法使い」では 暴力がほとんど使われません  
 The monkeys are rather aggressive, as are the apple trees.    	  少し攻撃的な 猿と りんごの木  
 But I think if "The Wizard of Oz" were made today,  the wizard would say, "Dorothy, you are the savior of Oz  that the prophecy foretold.    	  しかし もしこの映画が 現代に作られたとしたら 魔法使いは ドロシーに こう言うでしょう 「あなたはオズの国の救世主  
 Use your magic slippers to defeat  the computer-generated armies of the Wicked Witch."    	  コンピューターで作られた魔女たちを 魔法の靴で やっつけなさい」  
 But that's not how it happens.    	  もちろん 実際は違います  
 Another thing that's really unique about "The Wizard of Oz"  to me is that all of the most heroic  and wise and even villainous characters  are female.    	  この映画の もう一つの特徴は 主人公に加えて 良い魔女も 悪い魔女も 全て女性だということです  
 Now I started to notice this  when I actually showed "Star Wars" to my daughter,  which was years later, and the situation was different.    	  これに気づいたのは 数年後 娘に 「スター・ウォーズ」を見せた時でした この時の状況は 「オズの魔法使い」の時と違い  
 At that point I also had a son.    	  息子も誕生していました  
 He was only three at the time.    	  息子は当時3歳  
 He was not invited to the screening. He was too young for that.    	  「スター・ウォーズ」には幼すぎました  
 But he was the second child,  and the level of supervision had plummeted.   So he wandered in,  and it imprinted on him  like a mommy duck does to its duckling,  and I don't think he understands what's going on,  but he is sure soaking in it.    	  しかし 2番目の子供です わが子への監視の目も 衰えていましたから　 部屋に入ってきた息子は 映画から 何かを学んでいるようでした まるで 子供のアヒルが お母さんアヒルを見て学ぶように 息子が 映画の状況を 理解していたとは思えません しかし 確実に何かを学んでいました  
 And I wonder what he's soaking in.    	  私はそれが何か考えました  
 Is he picking up on the themes of courage  and perseverance and loyalty?    	  映画のテーマである勇気や 忍耐力 忠誠心なのか  
 Is he picking up on the fact that Luke  joins an army to overthrow the government?    	  または 主人公のルークが 政府を転覆させるため 軍に入るということなのか  
 Is he picking up on the fact that  there are only boys in the universe  except for Aunt Beru, and of course this princess,  who's really cool, but who kind of waits around through most of the movie  so that she can award the hero with a medal and a wink  to thank him for saving the universe, which he does  by the magic that he was born with?    	  それとも 映画が 男だけの世界であることなのか 実際 女性のキャラクターは ベルーとレイア姫だけです 姫の役はかっこいいですが 映画では男の活躍を待つだけです 姫ができることは　ヒーローが 生まれながらに持つ力で 世界を救ったことに対し メダルとウィンクで 称えることです  
 Compare this to 1939 with "The Wizard of Oz."    	  一方 1939年の 「オズの魔法使い」で  
 How does Dorothy win her movie?    	  ドロシーは 何を 成し遂げたでしょうか？  
 By making friends with everybody  and being a leader.    	  みんなと友達になり そのリーダーとなりましたよね  
 That's kind of the world I'd rather raise my kids in --  Oz, right? -- and not the world of dudes fighting,  which is where we kind of have to be.    	  オズの国こそ 我が子たちに 成長してほしい世界です しかし 実際は 男たちが戦う世界に― 子供たちは暮らしていますが  
 in the movies we have for our kids,  and so little yellow brick road?    	  なぜ子供向けの映画に 「フォース」が数多く存在し 夢へつづく道は ほとんど存在しないのでしょうか？  
 There is a lot of great writing about the impact  that the boy-violent movie has on girls,  and you should do that reading. It's very good.    	  男たちが戦う映画の 女性に与える影響を テーマにした本は たくさんあります とても良いので お勧めします  
 I haven't read as much on how boys are picking up on this vibe.    	  反対に 男性が受ける影響について テーマにした本は 少ないのです  
 I know from my own experience that  Princess Leia did not provide the adequate context  that I could have used in navigating the adult world  that is co-ed.   I think there was a first-kiss moment  when I really expected the credits to start rolling  because that's the end of the movie, right?    	  私の経験から分かるのは レイア姫は 大人の世界で大切なことを 十分に提示していません つまり 男女共同社会であること (笑い） 映画での初キスシーンの時 私は映画のクレジットが 流れると思いました 映画の終わるべき シーンだとは思いませんか？  
 I finished my quest, I got the girl.    	  冒険を終え 恋も実らせた  
 Why are you still standing there?    	  これ以上何か必要でしょうか？   
 I don't know what I'm supposed to do.    	  私には分かりません  
 The movies are very, very focused on defeating the villain  and getting your reward, and there's not a lot of room  for other relationships and other journeys.    	  現在の映画のテーマは 悪党を倒し 報酬を得ることです 人間関係や 他のテーマを扱いません  
 It's almost as though if you're a boy,  you are a dopey animal,  and if you are a girl, you should bring your warrior costume.    	  まるで 男の子は のろまな動物で 女の子は 戦士服を身にまとうべきと 決まっているかのようです  
 There are plenty of exceptions,  and I will defend the Disney princesses in front of any you.    	  例外も たくさんあります 例えば ディズニーの プリンセスたち  
 But they do send a message to boys,  that they are not, the boys are not really the target audience.    	  彼女たちは 男の子にも メッセージを送りますよね 本来の映画の ターゲットではありませんが  
 They are doing a phenomenal job of teaching girls  how to defend against the patriarchy,  but they are not necessarily showing boys  how they're supposed to defend against the patriarchy.    	  そして 女の子には 男社会への 立ち向かい方を教えます しかし 男の子には 同じことを 示す 必要はありませんよね  
 There's no models for them.    	  彼らには手本がないのです  
 And we also have some terrific women  who are writing new stories for our kids,  and as three-dimensional and delightful as Hermione and Katniss are,  these are still war movies. And, of course, the most successful studio of all time  continues to crank out classic after classic,  every single one of them about  the journey of a boy, or a man,  or two men who are friends, or a man and his son,    	  近年 素晴らしい 女性作家たちが 新しい物語を 子供たちに書いています ハーマイオニーやカットニスは 素晴らしい女性キャラクターです しかし 彼女たちの世界でも 戦いが繰り広げられます 大成功をおさめてきた ディズニー映画は 常に同じテーマを扱っています つまり どの映画も 男性の旅物語なのです 少年や 男性の物語 2人の男友達や 父と息子の物語  
 or two men who are raising a little girl.    	  または 少女を育てる 2人の男性の物語というように  
 Until, as many of you are thinking, this year,  when they finally came out with "Brave."    	  しかし みなさんが 考えているように 昨年　「メリンダとおそろしの森」が 公開されました  
 I recommend it to all of you. It's on demand now.    	  みなさんに お勧めする映画です  
 Do you remember what the critics said when "Brave" came out?    	  映画に対する 批評家の 反応を覚えていますか？  
 "Aw, I can't believe Pixar made a princess movie."    	  「ピクサーがプリンセス映画を作るなんて」  
 It's very good. Don't let that stop you.    	  素晴らしい映画なので 彼らのコメントは無視して下さい  
 Now, almost none of these movies pass the Bechdel Test.    	  これらのほとんどの映画は ベクデルテストをパスしていません  
 I don't know if you've heard of this.    	  聞いたことのないテストですよね  
 It has not yet caught on and caught fire,  but maybe today we will start a movement.    	  まだあまり普及していませんが― 広めていきたいテストです  
 Alison Bechdel is a comic book artist,  and back in the mid-'80s, she recorded this conversation  she'd had with a friend about assessing the movies that they saw.    	  漫画家のアリソン・ベクデルが 80年代の中ごろに 友達との会話を記したものです 鑑賞した映画の 評価を話したのです  
 And it's very simple. There's just three questions you should ask:  Is there more than one character in the movie  that is female who has lines?    	  次の3つの質問だけという シンプルなテストです まず 映画に2人以上の セリフのある 女性キャラクターがいるか？  
 So try to meet that bar.    	  この条件を 満たす必要がありますよ  
 And do these women talk to each other at any point in the movie?    	  次に その女性たちは 映画の途中で会話をするか？  
 And is their conversation about something other than  the guy that they both like?   Right? Thank you.   Thank you very much.    	  そして その会話は 2人ともが好きな 男性以外についてか?  シンプルでしょ? どうも  ありがとう  
 Two women who exist and talk to each other about stuff.    	  2人の女性キャラクターが 何らかの会話を交わす  
 It does happen. I've seen it,  and yet I very rarely see it in the movies  that we know and love.    	  映画である光景ですよね しかし 有名で 人気のある映画では まれなことなのです  
 In fact, this week I went to see  a very high-quality movie, "Argo."    	  先週 「アルゴ」を見てきました ハイクオリティーな映画です  
 Right? Oscar buzz, doing great at the box office,  a consensus idea of what a quality Hollywood film is.    	  アカデミー賞受賞を期待され 大ヒットしている映画です まさに 世間が考える クオリティーの高いハリウッド映画です  
 It pretty much flunks the Bechdel test.    	  ベクデルテストに パスしないでしょうね  
 And I don't think it should, because a lot of the movie,  I don't know if you've seen it, but a lot of the movie  takes place in this embassy where men and women  are hiding out during the hostage crisis.    	  パスするはずなんてありません この映画の 大部分のシーンは イランアメリカ大使館人質事件で 人々が人質となった 大使館です  
 We've got quite a few scenes of the men  having deep, angst-ridden conversations in this hideout,  and the great moment for one of the actresses is  to peek through the door and say, "Are you coming to bed, honey?"    	  人質の男性たちが 深刻で不安の伝わる会話をします 一方で この映画の女優の 一番の見せどころは 「あなた ベッドにくる？」と ドアの隙間越しに言うシーンです  
 That's Hollywood for you.    	  これがハリウッド映画です  
 So let's look at the numbers.    	  では 統計を見てみましょう  
 2011, of the 100 most popular movies,  how many of them do you think actually have female protagonists?    	  2011年の トップ100の映画の中で 何作品に 女性主人公が 登場すると思いますか？  
 Eleven. It's not bad.    	  11作です 悪くはない数字です  
 It's not as many percent as the number of women  we've just elected to Congress, so that's good.    	  昨年選ばれた 米国の連邦議会における 女性議員の割合よりは 少ないですがね  
 But there is a number that is greater than this  that's going to bring this room down.    	  しかし これを 上回る統計があります 驚きますよ 昨年 政府が行ったある研究を  
 Last year, The New York Times published a study  that the government had done.    	  ニューヨーク・タイムズが掲載しました そこには  
 One out of five women in America  say that they have been sexually assaulted some time in their life.    	  5人に1人のアメリカ人の女性が 性的暴行の被害者であると 報告しています  
 Now, I don't think that's the fault of popular entertainment.    	  大衆娯楽が 理由だとは言いません  
 I don't think kids' movies have anything to do with that.    	  子供の映画と 関係があるとも思いません  
 music videos or pornography are really directly related to that,  but something is going wrong,  and when I hear that statistic,  one of the things I think of is  that's a lot of sexual assailants.    	  音楽ビデオや ポルノグラフィーが 直接関係しているとも思いません しかし 何か間違っているのです 統計を聞いたときに 私が思ったのは 性的暴行が頻繁に 起こっているということ  
 Who are these guys? What are they learning?    	  男たちは何者なんでしょう？ 何を学んできたのでしょう？  
 What are they failing to learn?    	  何を学び損ねてきたのでしょう？  
 Are they absorbing the story that  a male hero's job is to defeat the villain with violence  and then collect the reward, which is a woman  who has no friends and doesn't speak?    	  男性のヒーローの役割が― 暴力で悪者を倒すことを 学んできたのでしょうか？ そして その報酬に 友達がいない 無口の女性を得ること  
 Are we soaking up that story?    	  そんなことを　 学んできたのでしょうか？  
 You know,  as a parent with the privilege  of raising a daughter  like all of you who are doing the same thing, we find this world and this statistic very alarming  and we want to prepare them.    	  おそらく― 娘を育てるという特権を得た 親のみなさんは この世界と統計に　 恐怖を感じるでしょう そして娘のために 対策を取りたいと感じるでしょう  
 We have tools at our disposal like "girl power,"  and we hope that that will help,  but I gotta wonder, is girl power going to protect them  if, at the same time, actively or passively,  we are training our sons to maintain their boy power?    	  私たちには 自由に使える 「ガールパワー」があります この力に期待したいです しかし 考えなければいけません 息子たちの 「ボーイパワー」を 守ろうとすれば 「ガールパワー」では 娘たちを守ることはできません  
 I mean, I think the Netflix queue  is one way that we can do something very important,  and I'm talking mainly to the dads here.    	  どの映画をレンタルするか 決めることが 大切なことだと思います そして 父親がカギとなります  
 I think we have got to show our sons  a new definition of manhood.    	  私たち父親が 息子たちに 新たな男の定義を 教えなければいけません  
 The definition of manhood is already turning upside down.    	  すでに 男の定義は ひっくり返されてきています  
 You've read about how the new economy  is changing the roles of caregiver and wage earner.    	  介護者や勤労者の役割が 変わってきていますよね  
 They're throwing it up in the air.    	  ひどい状況になっていますよね  
 So our sons are going to have to find some way  of adapting to this, some new relationship with each other,  and I think we really have to show them, and model for them,  how a real man is someone who trusts his sisters  and respects them, and wants to be on their team,  and stands up against the real bad guys,  who are the men who want to abuse the women.    	  だからこそ 息子たちは 新しい人間関係を 身に付ける必要があります 父親が 息子の手本となって 教えなければいけません 真の男性は 女性を信頼し 尊敬すること 女性とチームを組むこと 女性をいじめる男たちの前に 立ち向かう男性であること これを 父親は息子たちに 示さなければいけないのです  
 And I think our job in the Netflix queue  is to look out for those movies that pass the Bechdel Test,  if we can find them, and to seek out the heroines  who are there,  who show real courage, who bring people together,  and to nudge our sons to identify with those heroines  and to say, "I want to be on their team,"  because they're going to be on their team.    	  父親の役割は 映画をレンタルする時に ベクデルテストをパスする 映画を探し出すことなのです そして 映画の中のヒロインの 本当の勇気 仲間をまとめる姿を 見つけ出し 息子たちを ヒロインに 共感させることなのです そして 「ヒロインの仲間になりたい」 と言わせることなのです 将来きっとそうなりますからね  
 When I asked my daughter who her favorite character was in "Star Wars,"  do you know what she said?    	  娘に「スター・ウォーズ」で 好きなキャラクターを聞きました 何と答えたと思いますか？  
 Obi-Wan.    	  オビ＝ワン  
 Obi-Wan Kenobi and Glinda.    	  オビ＝ワン・ケノービとグリンダ  
 What do these two have in common?    	  この2人の共通点は何でしょうか  
 Maybe it's not just the sparkly dress.    	  おそらく キラキラの服 だけではないでしょう  
 I think these people are experts.    	  彼らはエキスパートなのです  
 I think these are the two people in the movie  who know more than anybody else,  and they love sharing their knowledge with other people  to help them reach their potential.    	  私が思うには2人の共通点は 映画の中で 人一倍の知識を持ち それを仲間の成長のために 共有することです  
 Now, they are leaders.    	  彼らはリーダーです  
 I like that kind of quest for my daughter,  and I like that kind of quest for my son.    	  2人のような冒険を 娘にも息子にも 経験してもらいたいです  
 I want more quests like that.    	  こんな冒険が もっと存在してほしい  
 I want fewer quests where my son is told,  "Go out and fight it alone,"  and more quests where he sees that it's his job to join a team,  maybe a team led by women,  to help other people become better  and be better people,  like the Wizard of Oz.    	  息子に 「一人で戦ってこい」と 命令するような冒険は 必要ないのです 息子に必要な冒険とは 仲間の成長を助けるために 女性が指揮をとるチームに 加わる必要を感じる冒険です 仲間のための冒険なのです オズの魔法使いのように  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとう  
 When I was a child growing up in Maine,  one of my favorite things to do  was to look for sand dollars on the seashores of Maine,  because my parents told me it would bring me luck.    	  昔 アメリカのメイン州に 住んでいた頃 スカシカシパンという ウニの一種を 海岸で 見つけるのが大好きでした 幸運をもたらすと 両親が言っていたからです  
 But you know, these shells, they're hard to find.    	  でもなかなか 見つかりません  
 They're covered in sand, they're difficult to see.    	  砂に覆われていて 見えません  
 However, over time, I got used to looking for them.    	  それでも段々と探すのに 慣れてきました  
 I started seeing shapes  and patterns that helped me to collect them.    	  形やパターンを見て 集められるように なったのです  
 This grew into a passion for finding things,  a love for the past and archaeology.    	  このことは 過去の何かを 探すという 考古学への興味へ 繋がりました  
 And eventually, when I started studying Egyptology,  I realized that seeing with my naked eyes alone wasn't enough.    	  やがて 私はエジプト学を 学び始めましたが 肉眼だけでは 不十分だと気が付きました  
 Because all of the sudden, in Egypt,  my beach had grown from a tiny beach in Maine  to one eight hundred miles long,  next to the Nile.    	  なぜなら その対象は メイン州の小さな海岸から エジプトのナイル川の横 長さ1300キロの領域になり  
 And my sand dollars had grown to the size of cities.    	  そして私の スカシカシパンは 街の大きさに なったからです  
 This is really what brought me to using satellite imagery.    	  そして衛星画像の 使用に至ります  
 For trying to map the past, I knew that I had to see differently.    	  過去の姿を描き出すために 異なる目が必要でした  
 So I want to show you an example of how we see differently  using the infrared.    	  そこで赤外線を用いて どう違いが見えるのか サンプルをお見せしましょう  
 This is a site located in the eastern Egyptian delta  called Mendes.    	  ここは東エジプトの 三角州に位置する ベンディクスです  
 And the site visibly appears brown,  but when we use the infrared  and we process it, all of the sudden, using false color,  the site appears as bright pink.    	  その場所は茶色で 見えていますが 赤外線画像を用いて 処理を行うと 突然その場所は フォールスカラーの 明るいピンクで表示されます  
 What you are seeing  are the actual chemical changes to the landscape  caused by the building materials and activities  of the ancient Egyptians.    	  そしてそこには 古代エジプト人による活動や 建築材料に起因する 化学変化を 見ることができます  
 What I want to share with you today  is how we've used satellite data  to find an ancient Egyptian city,  called Itjtawy,  missing for thousands of years.    	  今日皆さんに お伝えしたいことは どのように衛星画像を用いて 数千年以上失われていた イチタウイと呼ばれる 古代都市を見つけたのか ということです  
 Itjtawy was ancient Egypt's capital  at a period of time called the Middle Kingdom,  about four thousand years ago.    	  イチタウイは約4000年前 中王国時代に 400年以上に渡って存在した  
 The site is located in the Faiyum of Egypt,  and the site is really important,  because in the Middle Kingdom there was this great renaissance  for ancient Egyptian art, architecture and religion.    	  古代エジプトの首都です ここはエジプトの ファイユームに位置する とても重要な場所です なぜなら中王国時代には 古代エジプトにおける 美術や建築 宗教の  
 Egyptologists have always known the site of Itjtawy  was located somewhere near the pyramids of the two kings who built it,  indicated within the red circles here,  but somewhere within this massive flood plain.    	  ルネサンスとも言える 時期があったからです エジプト学者はイチタウイが この赤い丸で示された 二人の王のピラミッドの近くに あることは知っていました この大規模な 氾濫原の中にです このエリアはとても広く  
 This area is huge -- it's four miles by three miles in size.    	  6.5 × 5キロの大きさです  
 The Nile used to flow right next to the city of Itjtawy,  and as it shifted and changed and moved over time to the east,  it covered over the city.    	  ナイル川はイチタウイの すぐ横を流れていました そして東側に 川が移動したことにより 街を覆い尽くしたのです  
 So, how do you find a buried city  in a vast landscape?    	  ではどうやって この広大な土地から 埋もれた街を探し出すのか？  
 Finding it randomly would be the equivalent  of locating a needle in a haystack,  blindfolded, wearing baseball mitts.    	  ランダムに探すのでは 野球のミットで目を覆って 干し草の中で 針を探すようなものです  
 So what we did is we used NASA topography data  to map out the landscape, very subtle changes.    	  私たちが行なったことは NASAの地形データを用いて 土地の微妙な変化を 精密にまとめました  
 We started to be able to see where the Nile used to flow.    	  そして過去にナイル川が あった場所を見つけました  
 But you can see in more detail, and even more interesting,  this very slight raised area  seen within the circle up here  which we thought could possibly be the location of the city of Itjtawy.    	  しかし もっと詳細で 興味深いことがあります わずかに隆起している この丸の部分がおそらく イチタウイではないかと 考えられる場所です  
 So we collaborated with Egyptian scientists  to do coring work, which you see here.    	  そこで私たちは エジプトの科学者と協力して このような コア掘りを行いました  
 When I say coring, it's like ice coring,  but instead of layers of climate change, you're looking for layers of human occupation.    	  コア掘りというのは 氷床コアの掘削と似ていますが 気候ではなく人の活動による 層の変化を探すことです  
 And, five meters down,  underneath a thick layer of mud,  we found a dense layer of pottery.    	  そして５メートルの 厚い泥の層の下に 密集した陶器類の 層を見つけました  
 What this shows is that at this possible location of Itjtawy,  five meters down,  we have a layer of occupation for several hundred years,  dating to the Middle Kingdom,  dating to the exact period of time we think Itjtawy is.    	  このことが意味するのは この５メートル下の場所には 中王国時代の数百年の間の ある特定の期間の地層があり それがイチタウイであったと 考えられます  
 We also found work stone --  carnelian, quartz and agate  that shows that there was a jeweler's workshop here.    	  またカーネリアンや水晶 メノウなどの石細工も 見つかっており ここに宝石加工所が あったということです  
 These might not look like much,  but when you think about the most common stones  used in jewelry from the Middle Kingdom,  these are the stones that were used.    	  大した物に 見えないかもしれませんが 中王国時代に一般的だった 宝石を考えると まさにこれらが その石なのです さて ここに中王国時代の  
 So, we have a dense layer of occupation  dating to the Middle Kingdom at this site.    	  密集した地層が あったわけですが 宝石加工所の形跡が 意味することは  
 showing that whatever was there was a very important city.    	  何かとても重要な街が あったということです  
 No Itjtawy was here yet,  but we're going to be returning to the site  in the near future to map it out.    	  イチタウイなのかは まだわかりませんが 私たちはこの場所に戻り 近い将来にそれを解明します  
 And even more importantly,  we have funding to train young Egyptians in the use of satellite technology  so they can be the ones making great discoveries as well.    	  さらに重要なことは 衛星技術を使用するために 若いエジプト人スタッフの 訓練をしています 彼らも素晴らしい発見者の 一人になれるのです  
 So I wanted to end with my favorite quote from the Middle Kingdom --  it was probably written at the city of Itjtawy  four thousand years ago.    	  それでは私の好きな 中王国時代の言葉を引用して この場を締めくくりたいと 思います おそらくイチタウイで 4000年前に書かれたものです  
 "Sharing knowledge is the greatest of all callings.    	  「知識の共有は 人の欲求の中で 最も偉大なものであり  
 There's nothing like it in the land."    	  地上でそれに勝るものはない」  
 So as it turns out, TED was not founded in 1984 AD.    	  つまりTEDの始まりは 紀元1984年ではなく—  
   Making ideas actually started in 1984 BC  at a not-lost-for-long city, found from above.    	   実際このアイデアは 紀元前1984年の イチタウイで始まったのです  
 It certainly puts finding seashells by the seashore in perspective.    	  そしてこれは まさに壮大な 海辺での貝殻探しです  
 Thank you very much.    	  ありがとうございました  
   Thank you.    	  （拍手） ありがとう  
 I'd like to invite you to close your eyes.    	  みなさん 目を閉じて  
 Imagine yourself standing outside the front door of your home.    	  自分の家の 玄関前に立っていると想像してください  
 I'd like you to notice the color of the door,  the material that it's made out of.    	  ドアの色や 素材をよく確かめて  
 Now visualize a pack of overweight nudists on bicycles.   They are competing in a naked bicycle race,  and they are headed straight for your front door.    	  次に思い浮かべるのは 自転車に乗った 太ったヌーディストです みんな全裸でレース中です あなたの玄関に突進してきます  
 I need you to actually see this.    	  その映像を思い浮かべてください  
 They are pedaling really hard, they're sweaty,  they're bouncing around a lot.    	  懸命にペダルをこいで 汗だらけで あっちこちにぶつかり そのまま玄関に突っ込み  
 And they crash straight into the front door of your home.    	  自転車が宙を舞い タイヤがあなたをかすめ  
 Bicycles fly everywhere, wheels roll past you,  spokes end up in awkward places.    	  スポークがヘンなところに着地 ドアに入りましょう  
 Step over the threshold of your door into your foyer, your hallway,  whatever's on the other side, and appreciate the quality of the light.    	  広間でしょうか ホールでしょうか とにかく入って 差し込む光を よく見ましょう  
 The light is shining down on Cookie Monster.    	  光は クッキーモンスターを照らしています  
 Cookie Monster is waving at you from his perch on top of a tan horse.    	  クッキーモンスターは 黄褐色の ―  
 It's a talking horse.    	  しゃべる馬にまたがり  
 You can practically feel his blue fur tickling your nose.    	  あなたに手を振っています 青い毛が鼻をくすぐるのを 実際に感じます  
 You can smell the oatmeal raisin cookie that he's about to shovel into his mouth.    	  彼が口に放り込もうとしている オートミールレーズン・クッキーの匂いがします  
 Walk past him into your living room.    	  横を通って リビングへ行きましょう  
 In your living room, in full imaginative broadband,  picture Britney Spears.    	  ここでは 目いっぱい想像力を使って ブリトニー・スピアーズを 思い浮かべてください  
 She is scantily clad, she's dancing on your coffee table,  and she's singing "Hit Me Baby One More Time."    	  大胆な露出で テーブルの上で踊りながら 『ベイビー・ワン・モア・タイム』を 歌っています  
 And then, follow me into your kitchen.    	  次はキッチンです  
 In your kitchen, the floor has been paved over with a yellow brick road,  and out of your oven are coming towards you Dorothy, the Tin Man,  the Scarecrow and the Lion from "The Wizard of Oz,"  hand-in-hand, skipping straight towards you.    	  床は黄色いレンガの道になっていて オーブンから『オズの魔法使い』の ドロシーと ブリキ男と かかしと ライオンが出てきます 手をつないでスキップしながら まっすぐ向ってきます  
 Okay. Open your eyes.    	  さあ 目を開いて  
 I want to tell you about a very bizarre contest  that is held every spring in New York City.    	  これからお話しするのは 毎年ニューヨークで開かれる 風変りな競技会についてです  
 It's called the United States Memory Championship.    	  全米記憶選手権といいます  
 And I had gone to cover this contest a few years back  as a science journalist,  expecting, I guess, that this was going to be like the Superbowl of savants.    	  数年前 科学ライターとして この競技会を取材しました 私はサヴァン症候群患者の スーパーボウルみたいなものを 期待していました  
 This was a bunch of guys and a few ladies,  widely varying in both age and hygienic upkeep.    	  でも実際は 男だらけで 女性数名 ― 年齢も清潔さも まちまちな集まりでした  
   They were memorizing hundreds of random numbers,  looking at them just once.    	   参加者は たった一度見ただけで 数百個のランダムな 数字を記憶し  
 They were memorizing the names of dozens and dozens and dozens of strangers.    	  ものすごい数の 初対面の人の名前を覚え  
 They were memorizing entire poems in just a few minutes.    	  わずか数分で 詩を丸ごと暗記し  
 They were competing to see who could memorize  the order of a shuffled pack of playing cards the fastest.    	  シャッフルしたカードの順番を 記憶する速さを競うのです  
 I was like, this is unbelievable.    	  信じられませんでした  
 These people must be freaks of nature.    	  彼らは自然が生んだ怪物に違いない  
 And I started talking to a few of the competitors.    	  そこで参加者に話を聞きました  
 This is a guy called Ed Cook, who had come over from England,  where he had one of the best-trained memories.    	  彼はエド・クック イングランドでも最高の 記憶力の持ち主です  
 And I said to him, "Ed, when did you realize  that you were a savant?"    	  彼に こうたずねました 「エド 自分がサヴァンだと 気付いたのは いつ？」  
 And Ed was like, "I'm not a savant.    	  するとエドは こう言いました 「僕はサヴァンじゃない  
 In fact, I have just an average memory.    	  記憶力は普通だよ  
 Everybody who competes in this contest will tell you  that they have just an average memory.    	  競技会の参加者は みんな 記憶力は人並みだって言うはずだよ  
 We've all trained ourselves to perform these utterly miraculous feats of memory  using a set of ancient techniques,  techniques invented 2,500 years ago in Greece,  the same techniques that Cicero had used to memorize his speeches,  that medieval scholars had used to memorize entire books."    	  みんな訓練を積んで 驚異的な記憶の離れ業をやっているのさ ギリシャで2500年前に 発明された 古代のテクニックを使うんだ キケロが演説を覚え 中世の学者たちが 本を丸ごと暗記するために 使ったのと同じテクニックだよ」  
 And I said, "Whoa. How come I never heard of this before?"    	  僕の反応は 「なんで今まで知らなかったんだろう？」  
 And we were standing outside the competition hall,  and Ed, who is a wonderful, brilliant, but somewhat eccentric English guy,  says to me, "Josh, you're an American journalist.    	  僕たちは競技会場の外にいました エドはすごく優秀だけど 少し変わったイングランド人です 彼が言うのです 「君はアメリカのジャーナリストだろう  
 Do you know Britney Spears?"    	  ブリトニー・スピアーズは知り合いかい？」  
 I'm like, "What? No. Why?"    	  「何？ ― いいや　どうして？」  
 how to memorize the order of a shuffled pack of playing cards  on U.S. national television.    	  「ブリトニーに シャッフルしたカードの順番を 記憶する方法を教えたいんだ それもアメリカのテレビでね  
 It will prove to the world that anybody can do this."    	  ブリトニーにできるなら 誰でもできるという証明になる」  
   I was like, "Well, I'm not Britney Spears,  but maybe you could teach me.    	   だから僕は言いました 「ブリトニーじゃないけど 僕に教えてみないか  
 I mean, you've got to start somewhere, right?"    	  まず始めてみるべきだろう？」  
 And that was the beginning of a very strange journey for me.    	  これが風変りな旅のはじまりでした  
 I ended up spending the better part of the next year  not only training my memory,  but also investigating it, trying to understand how it works,  why it sometimes doesn't work,  and what its potential might be.    	  翌年 多くの時間を割いて 自分の記憶力を鍛えながら 記憶について調べ どう機能しているか 時々 機能しないのはなぜか どのくらい可能性を秘めているかを  
 And I met a host of really interesting people.    	  理解しようとしました たくさん面白い人に会いました  
 This is a guy called E.P.    	  この人は E.P.  
 the worst memory in the world.    	  記憶障害があって  
 His memory was so bad,  that he didn't even remember he had a memory problem,  which is amazing.    	  おそらく世界でいちばん 記憶力のない人です そのため 自分に記憶障害があることすら 思い出せません これはすごいことです  
 And he was this incredibly tragic figure,  but he was a window into the extent to which our memories make us who we are.    	  とても悲劇的な人物ですが どの程度 記憶が 我々を形作っているかを知る 手がかりとなる存在です  
 At the other end of the spectrum, I met this guy.    	  その対極にいるのが この人  
 This is Kim Peek, he was the basis for Dustin Hoffman's character  in the movie "Rain Man."    	  キム・ピークです 映画『レインマン』で ダスティン・ホフマンが演じた人物のモデルです  
 We spent an afternoon together in the Salt Lake City Public Library  memorizing phone books,  which was scintillating.    	  ある日の午後 ソルトレイクシティーの公立図書館で 一緒に電話帳を暗記して過ごしました とても面白かった  
   And I went back and I read a whole host of memory treatises,  treatises written 2,000-plus years ago in Latin,  in antiquity, and then later, in the Middle Ages.    	   帰ってから記憶に関する文献を 読みあさりました 2000年以上前の古典古代や その後 中世に ラテン語で書かれた文献です  
 And I learned a whole bunch of really interesting stuff.    	  いろいろ興味深いことを学びました  
 One of the really interesting things that I learned  is that once upon a time,  this idea of having a trained, disciplined, cultivated memory  was not nearly so alien as it would seem to us to be today.    	  なかでも面白かったのは かつては記憶力を 訓練し 鍛え 高めることが 今ほど奇妙な事ではなかったということです  
 Once upon a time, people invested in their memories,  in laboriously furnishing their minds.    	  かつて人々は記憶 すなわち 心を強化することに 精力を注ぎました  
 Over the last few millenia,  we've invented a series of technologies --  from the alphabet, to the scroll,  to the codex, the printing press, photography,  the computer, the smartphone --  that have made it progressively easier and easier  for us to externalize our memories,  for us to essentially outsource this fundamental human capacity.    	  数千年にわたり 我々は 様々な技術を発明してきました 文字にはじまり 巻物 ― 写本 印刷機 写真 コンピュータや スマートフォンにいたるまでです これらによって 記憶を外在化し 記憶という 人間の基盤となる能力を 外部に委ねることが 次第に簡単になってきました  
 These technologies have made our modern world possible,  but they've also changed us.    	  技術は現代社会を支える一方で 我々自身にも変化をもたらしました  
 They've changed us culturally,  and I would argue that they've changed us cognitively.    	  我々は文化的にも おそらく 認知的にも変わりました  
 Having little need to remember anymore,  it sometimes seems like we've forgotten how.    	  覚える必要がなくなり 記憶する方法を忘れてしまったようです  
 One of the last places on Earth where you still find  people passionate about this idea of a trained, disciplined, cultivated memory,  is at this totally singular memory contest.    	  記憶力を鍛え 高めるという考えに 熱心な人々に会える ― 地上でほとんど最後の場所が このユニークな記憶コンテストなのです  
 It's actually not that singular,  there are contests held all over the world.    	  ただ珍しいものではありません 世界中で開かれていますから  
 And I was fascinated, I wanted to know how do these guys do it.    	  私は興味がわいて 彼らのやり方を 知りたくなりました  
 A few years back a group of researchers at University College London  brought a bunch of memory champions into the lab.    	  数年前にロンドン大学の研究者が 記憶チャンピオンを研究対象に選びました 研究テーマは  
 They wanted to know:  Do these guys have brains that are somehow structurally,  anatomically different from the rest of ours? The answer was no.    	  彼らの脳が 構造的 解剖学的に普通の脳とちがうのか？ そのこたえは「ノー」でした  
 Are they smarter than the rest of us?    	  では我々より頭がいいのか？  
 They gave them a bunch of cognitive tests, and the answer was: not really.    	  認知テストの結果 ―  
 There was, however, one really interesting and telling difference  between the brains of the memory champions  and the control subjects that they were comparing them to.    	  それほどでもないとわかりました ただ 記憶チャンピオンの脳と 普通の人の脳との間には 明らかな違いがありました  
 When they put these guys in an fMRI machine,  scanned their brains while they were memorizing numbers  and people's faces and pictures of snowflakes,  they found that the memory champions were lighting up different parts of the brain  than everyone else.    	  チャンピオンの脳を fMRIでスキャンし その間に 数字や顔や雪の結晶を 記憶してもらいました すると普通の人と比較して 彼らは 脳の違う部分を 使っていたのです  
 Of note, they were using, or they seemed to be using,  a part of the brain that's involved in spatial memory and navigation.    	  特に 彼らが使う部分は 空間記憶とナビゲーションに 関わる部分のようです  
 Why? And is there something that the rest of us can learn from this?    	  なぜでしょう？ ここから何がわかるでしょう？  
 The sport of competitive memorizing is driven by a kind of arms race where,  every year, somebody comes up with a new way to remember more stuff more quickly,  and then the rest of the field has to play catch-up.    	  スポーツとしての競技記憶は まるで軍拡競争のようです 毎年より多く より速く覚えるために 新しい方法を思いつく人があらわれ みんながそれに追いつこうとします  
 This is my friend Ben Pridmore,  three-time world memory champion.    	  友人のベン・プリドモアは ３度 世界チャンピオンになっています  
 On his desk in front of him are 36 shuffled packs of playing cards  that he is about to try to memorize in one hour,  using a technique that he invented and he alone has mastered.    	  机の上には シャッフルされたカードが36組あります ベン自身が開発し 彼だけがマスターした技を使い １時間で暗記しようとしています  
 He used a similar technique  to memorize the precise order of 4,140 random binary digits  in half an hour.    	  彼は同様のテクニックで 4,140個のランダムな２進数の 正確な順序を 30分で覚えました  
   Yeah.    	  すごいでしょう 競技会では  
 And while there are a whole host of ways  of remembering stuff in these competitions,  everything, all of the techniques that are being used,  ultimately come down to a concept  that psychologists refer to as "elaborative encoding."    	  様々な記憶法が見られますが そのテクニックはすべて 心理学者が精緻な符号化と呼ぶ 概念に集約されます この概念を見事に具体化しているのが  
 And it's well-illustrated by a nifty paradox  known as the Baker/baker paradox, which goes like this:  If I tell two people to remember the same word,  if I say to you,  "Remember that there is a guy named Baker."    	  Baker/bakerパラドクスです お見せしましょう ２人に同じ言葉を覚えてもらいます あなたは ベイカーという名前を覚えてください  
 That's his name.    	  人の名前です  
 And I say to you, "Remember that there is a guy who is a baker."    	  あなたは baker つまり パン屋がいる場面を覚えてください  
 Okay? And I come back to you at some point later on,  and I say, "Do you remember that word that I told you a while back?    	  しばらく経ってから お二人にこうたずねます 「さっきの あの言葉 覚えていますか？  
 Do you remember what it was?"    	  「さっきの あの言葉 覚えていますか？ 何でした？」  
 The person who was told his name is Baker  is less likely to remember the same word  than the person was told his job is a baker.    	  ベイカーという名前を教えられた人は パン屋という職業を聞いた人に比べて その言葉を思い出しにくかったのです  
 Same word, different amount of remembering; that's weird.    	  言葉は同じなのに記憶量が違う・・・ 変ですね  
 What's going on here?    	  どうなっているのでしょうか？  
 Well, the name Baker doesn't actually mean anything to you.    	  実はベイカーという名前は あまり意味をもっていません  
 It is entirely untethered from all of the other memories  floating around in your skull.    	  この名前は頭の中にある他の記憶と まったくつながりがないのです  
 But the common noun "baker" -- we know bakers.    	  パン屋のbakerはどうでしょう みんなパン屋を知っています  
 Bakers wear funny white hats.    	  面白い形の白帽をかぶり  
 Bakers have flour on their hands.    	  手には小麦粉 ―  
 Bakers smell good when they come home from work.    	  仕事から帰ると いい匂いがします  
 Maybe we even know a baker.    	  知り合いにパン屋がいるかもしれません  
 And when we first hear that word,  we start putting these associational hooks into it,  that make it easier to fish it back out at some later date.    	  この言葉を聞いた瞬間に 連想する手がかりと結びつくので 言葉を再び取り出すことが容易になります  
 The entire art of what is going on in these memory contests,  and the entire art of remembering stuff better in everyday life,  is figuring out ways to transform capital B Bakers  into lower-case B bakers --  to take information that is lacking in context,  in significance, in meaning,  and transform it in some way,  so that it becomes meaningful in the light of all the other things  One of the more elaborate techniques for doing this    	  記憶コンテストで使われる技術 ― そして 日常生活で よりよく覚えるための こつは ベイカーという名前を パン屋のbakerに変換する方法を 知ることにほかなりません 文脈や意義や内容をもたない情報を 取り上げて 頭の中にある 物事との関連から 意味あるものへと 変換する方法を知ることなのです これをさらに複雑にしたテクニックが  
 dates back 2,500 years to Ancient Greece.    	  2500年前の古代ギリシャにありました  
 It came to be known as the memory palace.    	  「記憶の宮殿」という名で知られます  
 The story behind its creation goes like this:  There was a poet called Simonides, who was attending a banquet.    	  この技の誕生にまつわる話があります 詩人のシモニデスは 祝宴に参加していました  
 He was actually the hired entertainment,  because back then, if you wanted to throw a really slamming party,  you didn't hire a D.J., you hired a poet.    	  お雇い詩人だったのです 当時 最高のパーティをやろうと思ったら DJじゃなく 詩人を雇ったのです  
 And he stands up, delivers his poem from memory, walks out the door,  and at the moment he does, the banquet hall collapses.    	  シモニデスは 詩を暗唱した後 部屋を出ます その瞬間 宴会場が崩壊して  
 Kills everybody inside.    	  中にいた全員が死にます  
 It doesn't just kill everybody,  it mangles the bodies beyond all recognition.    	  それだけではなく 損傷がひどくて誰が誰だか分かりません  
 Nobody can say who was inside,  nobody can say where they were sitting.    	  誰が中にいて どこに座っていたかもわからない  
 The bodies can't be properly buried.    	  これではきちんと埋葬できない  
 It's one tragedy compounding another.    	  悲劇が悲劇を呼びます  
 Simonides, standing outside,  the sole survivor amid the wreckage,  closes his eyes and has this realization,  which is that in his mind's eye,  he can see where each of the guests at the banquet had been sitting.    	  戸外にいたシモニデスは 惨事の唯一の生き残りです 彼は目を閉じると あることに気づきます 心の目で 客がそれぞれ どこに座っていたかが見えるのです  
 And he takes the relatives by the hand,  and guides them each to their loved ones amid the wreckage.    	  彼は犠牲者の親類の手をとり がれきの中 最愛の人の元へと導きます  
 What Simonides figured out at that moment,  is something that I think we all kind of intuitively know,  which is that, as bad as we are at remembering names and phone numbers,  and word-for-word instructions from our colleagues,  we have really exceptional visual and spatial memories.    	  この時シモニデスが気づいたことは 誰もがおそらく 直感的にわかっていることです つまり我々は 名前や電話番号や同僚からの指示を まるごと覚えるのは苦手だが 視覚的 空間的な記憶には 優れているのです  
 If I asked you to recount the first 10 words of the story  that I just told you about Simonides,  chances are you would have a tough time with it.    	  もし私が みなさんに 今のシモニデスの話の 最初の10語を思い出して 言ってもらおうとしても かなり難しいでしょう  
 But, I would wager that if I asked you to recall  who is sitting on top of a talking tan horse  in your foyer right now,  you would be able to see that.    	  でも 玄関ホールで しゃべる馬に乗っているのが 誰だったかたずねたら きっと思い出せるはずです  
 The idea behind the memory palace  is to create this imagined edifice in your mind's eye,  and populate it with images of the things that you want to remember --  the crazier, weirder, more bizarre,  funnier, raunchier, stinkier the image is,  the more unforgettable it's likely to be.    	  きっと思い出せるはずです 記憶の宮殿の背後にある発想は こうです 頭の中で大きな建物を想像して その中に覚えたいものの イメージを配置します イメージが 異常で 不気味で 奇怪で  
 This is advice that goes back 2,000-plus years  to the earliest Latin memory treatises.    	  おかしく 卑猥で 不快なものであるほど 忘れにくくなります この知識は2000年以上前の 記憶に関するラテン語の 文献までさかのぼります  
 So how does this work?    	  どういう仕組みでしょうか？  
 Let's say that you've been invited to TED center stage to give a speech,  and you want to do it from memory,  if he had been invited to TEDxRome 2,000 years ago.    	  たとえば あなたが講演のために TEDのメイン・ステージに 招かれたとしましょう そして記憶をたよりに話そうとします 2000年前にキケロが TEDxRomeに招かれていたら  
   What you might do  is picture yourself at the front door of your house.    	  使ったであろう方法です まず あなたは 自宅の玄関にいる自分を想像します  
 And you'd come up with some sort of crazy, ridiculous, unforgettable image,  to remind you that the first thing you want to talk about  is this totally bizarre contest.    	  そして異様で馬鹿げた 忘れにくいイメージを思い浮かべます 話の出だしは 奇妙な競技会のことだと  
   And then you'd go inside your house,  and you would see an image of Cookie Monster on top of Mister Ed.    	  思い出せるようなイメージです 次にあなたは家に入り 馬のミスター・エドに乗った クッキーモンスターの イメージを目にします  
 And that would remind you  that you would want to then introduce your friend Ed Cook.    	  このイメージから 次にエド・クックを紹介することを 思い出します  
 And then you'd see an image of Britney Spears  to remind you of this funny anecdote you want to tell.    	  さらにブリトニー・スピアーズのイメージから 面白いエピソードを思い出します  
 And you'd go into your kitchen,  and the fourth topic you were going to talk about  was this strange journey that you went on for a year,  and you'd have some friends to help you remember that.    	  キッチンに入って ４つ目の話題は １年にわたる奇妙な旅のことです これはドロシー達が 思い出すのを手伝ってくれます  
 This is how Roman orators memorized their speeches --  not word-for-word, which is just going to screw you up,  but topic-for-topic.    	  これがローマの雄弁家たちが 演説を記憶した方法です 一字一句 覚えるのは うまくいかないので 話題ごとに記憶します  
 In fact, the phrase "topic sentence" --  that comes from the Greek word "topos,"  which means "place."    	  トピック・センテンスという言葉は ギリシャ語で「場所」という意味の "topos"が語源です  
 That's a vestige of when people used to think about oratory and rhetoric  in these sorts of spatial terms.    	  これは雄弁術や修辞法について 空間を表す言葉を使って考えた  
 The phrase "in the first place,"  that's like "in the first place of your memory palace."    	  名残です 「はじめに」という意味の "in the first place"は 記憶の宮殿の最初の場所のことです  
 I thought this was just fascinating,  and I got really into it.    	  この技術は とても魅力的で 僕はのめり込みました  
 And I went to a few more of these memory contests,  and I had this notion that I might write something longer  about this subculture of competitive memorizers.    	  さらにいくつかの記憶コンテストに出かけ 競技記憶というサブカルチャーについて 少し長いものを書く気になりました  
 But there was a problem.    	  ただ問題がありました  
 The problem was that a memory contest  is a pathologically boring event.    	  記憶コンテストは イベントとしては 考えられないほど退屈なのです  
   Truly, it is like a bunch of people sitting around taking the SATs --  I mean, the most dramatic it gets  is when somebody starts massaging their temples.    	   大勢の人が学力テストを 受検しているみたいです 最高に劇的な場面でも 誰かがこめかみを もみ始める程度です  
 And I'm a journalist, I need something to write about.    	  僕はジャーナリストですから ネタが必要です  
 I know that there's incredible stuff happening in these people's minds,  but I don't have access to it.    	  頭の中ですごいことが起きているのは わかるのですが それを見ることはできません  
 And I realized, if I was going to tell this story,  I needed to walk in their shoes a little bit.    	  だからこう考えました これを書くなら 少し彼らの立場に立たなければ  
 And so I started trying to spend 15 or 20 minutes  every morning, before I sat down with my New York Times,  just trying to remember something.    	  そこで毎朝15分から20分 ― 新聞を読む前に 暗記を始めました  
 Maybe it was a poem,  maybe it was names from an old yearbook that I bought at a flea market.    	  詩の時もあれば フリー・マーケットで買った 卒業アルバムの 名簿の時もありました  
 And I found that this was shockingly fun.    	  これが何と 驚くほど面白いんです  
 I never would have expected that.    	  まったく予想していませんでした  
 It was fun because this is actually not about training your memory.    	  なぜ楽しいかというと 単なる記憶の訓練ではないからです  
 What you're doing, is you're trying to get better and better  at creating, at dreaming up,  these utterly ludicrous, raunchy, hilarious,  and hopefully unforgettable images in your mind's eye.    	  この訓練は くだらなくて ワイセツで 笑えて できれば忘れにくいイメージを作り 思い浮かべる力を つけるためのものなんです  
 And I got pretty into it.    	  僕はのめり込みました  
 This is me wearing my standard competitive memorizer's training kit.    	  僕が記憶競技用の 訓練キットをつけているところです  
 It's a pair of earmuffs  and a set of safety goggles that have been masked over  except for two small pinholes,  because distraction is the competitive memorizer's greatest enemy.    	  これはヘッドフォン ― それと 完全に遮蔽し 小さな穴だけあけた 安全ゴーグルです 競技として記憶する我々にとって 最大の敵は気が散ることですから  
 I ended up coming back to that same contest that I had covered a year earlier,  and I had this notion that I might enter it,  sort of as an experiment in participatory journalism.    	  結局１年前に取材した その競技会に戻ってきました 自分としては 参加型ジャーナリズムの 実験のつもりでいました  
 It'd make, I thought, maybe a nice epilogue to all my research.    	  これまでの調査を締めくくる 素敵なエピローグだと思っていたのです  
 Problem was, the experiment went haywire.    	  ただ厄介なことに 実験は予想外の結果に終わりました  
 I won the contest --  which really wasn't supposed to happen.    	  僕が優勝してしまったのです そんなはずではなかったのですが  
   Now, it is nice to be able to memorize speeches  and phone numbers and shopping lists,  but it's actually kind of beside the point.    	  （拍手） 確かにスピーチや電話番号や 買い物リストを覚えられるのは 便利ですが たいしたことではありません  
 These are just tricks.    	  これは単なる技です この技がうまくいくのは  
 They work because they're based on some pretty basic principles  about how our brains work.    	  脳の働きの基本に 従っているからです  
 And you don't have to be building memory palaces  or memorizing packs of playing cards  to benefit from a little bit of insight about how your mind works.    	  心の仕組みを少し考えて役立てるのに 記憶の宮殿を造ったり カードを何セットも 覚える必要はありません  
 We often talk about people with great memories  as though it were some sort of an innate gift,  but that is not the case.    	  よく 記憶力がいいのは 生まれつきの才能だと言いますが そうではありません  
 Great memories are learned.    	  記憶力は学習のたまものです  
 At the most basic level, we remember when we pay attention.    	  まずはじめに 注意を向けることで覚えます  
 We remember when we are deeply engaged.    	  没頭しているときに記憶します  
 We remember when we are able to take a piece of information and experience,  and figure out why it is meaningful to us,  why it is significant, why it's colorful,  when we're able to transform it in some way that makes sense  in the light of all of the other things floating around in our minds,  when we're able to transform Bakers into bakers.    	  我々が記憶するのは ある情報や経験に意味があるのはなぜか なぜ重要なのか なぜ鮮やかなのかを 理解できた時です そして心に浮かぶ物事との関わりの中で 意味あるものに 変換できるとき すなわち ベイカーさんをパン屋さんに 変換できた時に 覚えるのです  
 The memory palace, these memory techniques --  they're just shortcuts.    	  記憶の宮殿や記憶術は 近道にすぎません  
 In fact, they're not even really shortcuts.    	  いや 近道ですらありません  
 They work because they make you work.    	  技が機能するのは そのために努力するからです  
 They force a kind of depth of processing,  a kind of mindfulness,  that most of us don't normally walk around exercising.    	  技に必要なのは 普段はしないような 深い処理や 意識の集中です でも近道はありません これが 物事が記憶に残る仕組みなのです  
 But there actually are no shortcuts.    	  みなさんに伝えたいことは  
 This is how stuff is made memorable.    	  自分の記憶障害すら忘れていた  
 And I think if there's one thing that I want to leave you with,  it's what E.P., the amnesic who couldn't even remember he had a memory problem,  left me with,  which is the notion that our lives are the sum of our memories.    	  E.P.が僕に教えてくれたこと ― すなわち 我々の人生は すなわち 我々の人生は 記憶そのものだという考え方です スマートフォンに熱中したり  
 How much are we willing to lose  from our already short lives,  by losing ourselves in our Blackberries, our iPhones,  by not paying attention to the human being across from us  who is talking with us,  by being so lazy that we're not willing to process deeply?    	  自分と会話している 目の前の人に 関心を寄せなかったり 怠けて深く考えようとしないことで それでなくても短い人生を どれほど無駄にしているでしょう？ どれほど無駄にしているでしょう？  
 I learned firsthand  that there are incredible memory capacities  latent in all of us.    	  僕が経験から学んだことは 誰もが秘められた膨大な記憶力を もっているということです  
 But if you want to live a memorable life,  you have to be the kind of person  who remembers to remember.    	  でも記憶に残る人生を送りたいなら 覚えることの大切さを 忘れない人間になるべきです  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 Today I'm going to speak to you  about the last 30 years of architectural history.    	  本日お話しさせていただくのは 過去30年にわたる 建築の歴史です  
 That's a lot to pack into 18 minutes.    	  これを18分でまとめるわけです  
 It's a complex topic,  so we're just going to dive right in at a complex place:  New Jersey.    	  複雑なトピックですから 前置きはさておき 複雑な所から始めましょう ニュージャージー州です  
 Because 30 years ago, I'm from Jersey,  and I was six, and I lived there in my parents' house  in a town called Livingston,  and this was my childhood bedroom.    	  30年前 ジャージー出身の私は 当時６才で そこで両親と一緒に住んでいました リビングストンという町です これが私の子供部屋でした  
 Around the corner from my bedroom  was the bathroom that I used to share with my sister.    	  自分の部屋の角を曲がったところが バスルームで 妹とシェアしていました  
 And in between my bedroom and the bathroom  was a balcony that overlooked the family room.    	  自分の部屋とバスルームの間には バルコニーがあり リビングルームが見下ろせました  
 And that's where everyone would hang out and watch TV,  so that every time that I walked from my bedroom to the bathroom,  everyone would see me,  and every time I took a shower and would come back in a towel,  everyone would see me.    	  そこで家族がくつろいだり テレビを観るわけです ですから 自分の部屋から バスルームに移動すると 家族に見られるんです シャワーを浴びて タオル姿で歩くたびに 見られてしまいます  
 And I looked like this.    	  それで 私はこんな少年でした  
 I was awkward,  insecure, and I hated it.    	  不器用で オドオドした自分が 大嫌いでした  
 I hated that walk, I hated that balcony,  I hated that room, and I hated that house.    	  あの廊下とバルコニーが大嫌いでした 自分の部屋も家も 大嫌いだったのです  
 And that's architecture.    	  これが建築です  
   Done.    	   おしまいです  
 That feeling, those emotions that I felt,  that's the power of architecture,  because architecture is not about math and it's not about zoning,  it's about those visceral, emotional connections  that we feel to the places that we occupy.    	  あの感じ— 私が抱いた感情 あれが建築の力です なぜなら建築とは計算や 都市計画ではなく 私たちがいる場所に感じる 理屈抜きの感情的つながりだからです  
 And it's no surprise that we feel that way,  because according to the EPA,  Americans spend 90 percent of their time indoors.    	  このような感情を抱くのは 驚くにあたりません アメリカ合衆国環境保護庁によると アメリカ人は人生の９割を 屋内で過ごしており  
 That's 90 percent of our time surrounded by architecture.    	  この９割もの時間は 建築物に囲まれているのです  
 That's huge.    	  大変 重要なことです  
 That means that architecture is shaping us in ways that we didn't even realize.    	  気付かないうちに 私たちの意識は 建築に大きく影響されているのです  
 That makes us a little bit gullible and very, very predictable.    	  ですから私たちは少しだけ騙されやすく とても考えが読まれやすいのです  
 It means that when I show you a building like this,  I know what you think:  You think "power" and "stability" and "democracy."    	  つまり 私がこのような 建築物をお見せすれば 皆さんのお考えが分かります 頭に浮かぶのは 権力､安定､民主主義でしょう  
 And I know you think that because it's based on a building  that was build 2,500 years ago by the Greeks.    	  これが分かるのは この建物のもとになっているのは ２千５百年前に ギリシア人が 建てた建造物だからです  
 This is a trick.    	  これはトリックなんです  
 This is a trigger that architects use  to get you to create an emotional connection  to the forms that we build our buildings out of.    	  建築家が使う手で 過去の形態を踏襲することで 見る人たちに 自分たちの建物と感情的なつながりを 感じさせるのです  
 It's a predictable emotional connection,  and we've been using this trick for a long, long time.    	  これは予測可能な感情的つながりで 私たちは長きに渡って このトリックを使ってきました  
 We used it [200] years ago to build banks.    	  ２百年前には銀行の建築に用いられ  
 We used it in the 19th century to build art museums.    	  19世紀には美術館建築に 使用されました  
 And in the 20th century in America,  we used it to build houses.    	  そして20世紀のアメリカでは 住宅の建築に用いられました  
 And look at these solid, stable little soldiers  facing the ocean and keeping away the elements.    	  この頑丈で落ち着いた 小さな見張り人をご覧ください 海に向き合い 自然の力を寄せ付けません  
 This is really, really useful,  because building things is terrifying.    	  これは非常に有用です 物を建てることは恐ろしいからです  
 It's expensive, it takes a long time, and it's very complicated.    	  建築には お金も時間もかかりますし とても複雑です  
 And the people that build things --  developers and governments --  they're naturally afraid of innovation,  and they'd rather just use those forms that they know you'll respond to.    	  ですから 建物を建てる人たち— 開発者や政治家は 自然と イノベーションを忌み嫌います 人々に確実に受け入れられるような 建物を作りたいんです  
 That's how we end up with buildings like this.    	  そして こんな建物を 作ってしまいます  
 This is a nice building.    	  素敵な建物です  
 This is the Livingston Public Library  that was completed in 2004 in my hometown,  and, you know, it's got a dome  and it's got this round thing and columns, red brick,  and you can kind of guess what Livingston is trying to say with this building:  children, property values and history.    	  リビングストン公立図書館は 私の故郷で2004年に完成しました ドームをたずさえ 丸い装飾と円柱に 赤レンガときました リビングストンが この建物で 何を伝えたいのか検討がつくでしょう 子供たち､資産価値､歴史です  
 But it doesn't have much to do with what a library actually does today.    	  でも現代図書館の役割とは あまり関係がありません  
 That same year, in 2004, on the other side of the country,  another library was completed,  and it looks like this.    	  同じ年の2004年 アメリカの反対側では 別の図書館が完工しました こちらです  
 It's in Seattle.    	  シアトルにあります  
 This library is about how we consume media in a digital age.    	  この図書館はデジタル時代における メディアへの接し方を象徴するものです  
 It's about a new kind of public amenity for the city,  a place to gather and read and share.    	  都市における新しい公共施設の姿で 人々が集まって 読んだり 共有したりできます  
 So how is it possible  that in the same year, in the same country,  two buildings, both called libraries,  look so completely different?    	  どうして こうなったのでしょう 同じ年に 同じ国内で建てられた 「図書館」と呼ばれる２つの建物が なぜ こんなにも違うのでしょうか？  
 And the answer is that architecture works on the principle of a pendulum.    	  その答えは 建築は振り子の原理に 従っていることにあります  
 On the one side is innovation,  and architects are constantly pushing, pushing for new technologies,  new typologies, new solutions for the way that we live today.    	  一方にはイノベーションがあり 建築家たちは 今日見られるような新しいテクノロジーや タイポロジー 新たな解決法を 常に推し進めてきました  
 And we push and we push and we push  until we completely alienate all of you.    	  そして ひたすら推し続けた結果 皆さんに 完全にそっぽを向かれた形です  
 We wear all black, we get very depressed,  you think we're adorable,  we're dead inside because we've got no choice.    	  今や真っ黒な出で立ちで とても落ち込んでいます 皆さんは素敵だと 思われるかもしれませんが 心は死んでいるんです 選択肢がなかったのですから  
 We have to go to the other side  and reengage those symbols that we know you love.    	  ですから反対側に行って 大衆が好む象徴を また取り入れなければいけません  
 So we do that, and you're happy,  we feel like sellouts,  so we start experimenting again  and we push the pendulum back and back and forth and back and forth  we've gone for the last 300 years,  and certainly for the last 30 years.    	  そうすれば 皆さんはハッピーですが 私たちは後ろめたい気分なので また実験を始めます 振り子を押し戻して 左右に揺らしながら 300年が経ちました 過去30年は間違いなくそうでした  
 Okay, 30 years ago we were coming out of the '70s.    	  30年前と言えば ちょうど70代の終盤で  
 Architects had been busy experimenting with something called brutalism.    	  建築家の間ではブルータリズムと 呼ばれる試みが流行ります  
 It's about concrete.    	  コンクリートです  
   You can guess this.    	   こちらは想像に難くありません  
 Small windows, dehumanizing scale.    	  小さい窓や非人間的なサイズ  
 This is really tough stuff.    	  実に荒々しい形式です  
 So as we get closer to the '80s,  we start to reengage those symbols.    	  80年代に近づくにつれ 私たちは 再び象徴性を 取り入れ始めます  
 We push the pendulum back into the other direction.    	  振り子を別の方向に 押し戻したのです  
 We take these forms that we know you love  and we update them.    	  大衆から気に入られるであろう形に 手を加えました  
 We add neon  and we add pastels  and we use new materials.    	  ネオンを加えたり パステル調の色を加えたり 新しい素材を取り入れました  
 And you love it.    	  皆さんには好評でした  
 And we can't give you enough of it.    	  そこで建築家たちは飽き足りず  
 We take Chippendale armoires  and we turned those into skyscrapers,  and skyscrapers can be medieval castles made out of glass.    	  チッペンデール風の家具を 超高層ビルに応用したり 超高層ビルもガラスでできた 中世のお城になります  
 Forms got big,  forms got bold and colorful.    	  フォームは大きくなり 大胆でカラフルになりました  
 Dwarves became columns.    	  小人が円柱になりました  
   Swans grew to the size of buildings.    	   白鳥は建物ほどの大きさに 成長しました  
 It was crazy.    	  クレイジーです  
 But it's the '80s, it's cool.    	  でも80年代ですから それがクールなんでしょう  
   We're all hanging out in malls  and we're all moving to the suburbs,  and out there, out in the suburbs,  we can create our own architectural fantasies.    	   ショッピングモールを作っていた私たちは 郊外に繰り出します 郊外の辺鄙な場所では 建築家は自分たちの夢を 実現できます  
 And those fantasies,  they can be Mediterranean  or French  or Italian.    	  その夢とは 地中海風だったり フランス風だったり イタリア風だったり  
   Possibly with endless breadsticks.    	   果てしないスティックパンがついているかも  
 This is the thing about postmodernism.    	  ポストモダン建築で  
 This is the thing about symbols.    	  まさに象徴性の回復です  
 They're easy, they're cheap,  because instead of making places,  we're making memories of places.    	  これは簡単で 安価でもあります なぜなら場所を作り出す代わりに 場所の記憶を形にしているだけだからです  
 Because I know, and I know all of you know,  this isn't Tuscany.    	  そう 皆さんは百も承知のはずです そこはトスカーナ州ではなく  
 This is Ohio.    	  オハイオ州だと  
   So architects get frustrated,  and we start pushing the pendulum back into the other direction.    	   そして苛立った建築家たちは 振り子を別の方向に振り始めます  
 In the late '80s and early '90s,  we start experimenting with something called deconstructivism.    	  80年代後半から90年代初頭に 脱構築主義と呼ばれる手法を試みます  
 We throw out historical symbols,  we rely on new, computer-aided design techniques,  and we come up with new compositions,  forms crashing into forms.    	  歴史的な象徴性を投げ捨て コンピューターによる 新たなデザイン技術に身を委ね 新しい構図を生み出します 建物と建物のぶつかり合いです  
 This is academic and heady stuff,  it's super unpopular,  we totally alienate you.    	  学術的であり 目まいを起こします これは非常に不評で 皆さんを完全に遠ざけてしまいます  
 Ordinarily, the pendulum would just swing back into the other direction.    	  普通なら ここで振り子は 反対側に向かうはずです  
 And then, something amazing happened.    	  しかし素晴らしいことが起こりました  
 In 1997, this building opened.    	  1997年 この建物がオープンしました  
 This is the Guggenheim Bilbao, by Frank Gehry.    	  フランク・ゲーリーによる ビルバオ・グッゲンハイム美術館です  
 And this building  fundamentally changes the world's relationship to architecture.    	  この建物が 世界と建築との関係を 根本から変えてしまいます  
 Paul Goldberger said that Bilbao was one of those rare moments  when critics, academics, and the general public  were completely united around a building.    	  ポール・ゴールドバーガーは 「この建物の評価は 批評家､学者､大衆が 完全に一体となる 実に稀な瞬間であった」 と言いました  
 The New York Times called this building a miracle.    	  ニューヨーク・タイムズは この建物を「奇跡」と呼びました  
 Tourism in Bilbao increased 2,500 percent  after this building was completed.    	  この建物が完成してから ビルバオを訪れる観光客は 25倍にもなりました  
 So all of a sudden, everybody wants one of these buildings:  L.A.,  Seattle,  Chicago,  New York,  Cleveland,  Springfield.    	  すると 突然 誰もが 同じような建物を欲しがりました ロサンゼルス シアトル シカゴ ニューヨーク クリーブランド スプリングフィールド  
   Everybody wants one, and Gehry is everywhere.    	   皆が欲しがるので ゲーリーの建物はいたる所で見られます  
 He is our very first starchitect.    	  彼は 私たちから生まれた 最初のスター建築家です  
 Now, how is it possible that these forms --  they're wild and radical --  how is it possible that they become so ubiquitous throughout the world?    	  なぜ このような形態— 荒々しく 急進的な形態が 世界のいたるところで 見られるようになったのでしょうか？  
 And it happened because media so successfully galvanized around them  that they quickly taught us that these forms mean culture and tourism.    	  これらの建物が メディアで うまく取り上げられたことで 建物が 文化や観光業を意味することが 急速に広まったからです  
 We created an emotional reaction to these forms.    	  私たちは建物に感情的な反応を 生み出したのです  
 So did every mayor in the world.    	  世界の市長も同じでした  
 So every mayor knew that if they had these forms,  they had culture and tourism.    	  彼らはこういった建物を作れば 文化と観光の 呼び水になると考えたのです  
 This phenomenon at the turn of the new millennium  happened to a few other starchitects.    	  新しいミレニアムに入る頃 この事象は 他の数名スター建築家にも 起こっていました  
 It happened to Zaha  and it happened to Libeskind,  and what happened to these elite few architects  at the turn of the new millennium  could actually start to happen to the entire field of architecture,  as digital media starts to increase the speed  with which we consume information.    	  ザハ・ハディド ダニエル・リベスキンド ミレニアムの変わり目に この数名のエリート建築家に 起こったことは 建築界全体にも広まりつつありました デジタルメディアが勢いを増し 私たちが情報を消費するスピードも 速くなったからです  
 Because think about how you consume architecture.    	  私たちの建築に対する 意識を考えてみてください  
 A thousand years ago,  you would have had to have walked to the village next door to see a building.    	  千年前なら 建物を見るために 隣村まで 足を運ばなければならなかったはずです  
 Transportation speeds up:  You can take a boat, you can take a plane, you can be a tourist.    	  交通手段も速度を増しています 船や飛行機に乗って 旅行できます  
 Technology speeds up: You can see it in a newspaper, on TV,  until finally, we are all architectural photographers,  and the building has become disembodied from the site.    	  テクノロジーも然りです 新聞やテレビで見ることができます そして今や 私たちの誰もが 建築写真家になることができ 建物は必ずしも現地で見るものでは なくなりました  
 Architecture is everywhere now,  and that means that the speed of communication  has finally caught up to the speed of architecture.    	  建築はいたるところに存在し これが意味するのは コミュニケーションの速度が 建築の速度に やっと追いついてきたということです  
 Because architecture actually moves quite quickly.    	  実は 建築というのは 目まぐるしく動くものです  
 It doesn't take long to think about a building.    	  建築の構想に そんなに時間はかかりません  
 It takes a long time to build a building,  three or four years,  and in the interim, an architect will design two or eight  or a hundred other buildings  before they know if that building that they designed four years ago  was a success or not.    	  時間がかかるのは実際の建設で ３年から４年かかりますが この間にも 建築家は ２つか８つ 百もの異なる建築をデザインします ４年前に設計した建物が 成功するか否か分からないまま デザインするわけです  
 That's because there's never been a good feedback loop in architecture.    	  これは建築界でフィードバックの循環が うまく行われなかったためです  
 That's how we end up with buildings like this.    	  そして こんな建物が生まれたのです  
 Brutalism wasn't a two-year movement,  it was a 20-year movement.    	  ブルータリズムは ２年間の動向ではなく 20年間の傾向でした  
 For 20 years, we were producing buildings like this  because we had no idea how much you hated it.    	  20年間も 建築家は このような建物を 建て続けていたのです 皆さんに不評だったとは 思いもよらなかったのです  
 It's never going to happen again,  I think,  because we are living on the verge of the greatest revolution in architecture  since the invention of concrete,  of steel, or of the elevator,  and it's a media revolution.    	  このようなことは二度と起こりません なぜなら 私たちは建築における 偉大なる変革を目前にしているからです コンクリートや鉄 エレベーターの発明を経た今 メディア革命を迎えつつあるのです  
 So my theory is that when you apply media to this pendulum,  it starts swinging faster and faster,  until it's at both extremes nearly simultaneously,  and that effectively blurs the difference between innovation and symbol,  between us, the architects, and you, the public.    	  ですから私のセオリーは 振り子にメディアを加えると もっと早く動き始めるということです 両端にあったものが 同一化してしまうほどの速さで イノベーションと象徴性の境を 上手く曖昧にします つまり私たち建築家と 皆さん大衆を隔てるものです  
 Now we can make nearly instantaneous, emotionally charged symbols  out of something that's brand new.    	  そして感情を引き出す象徴性は 真新しいものから ほぼ瞬時に作り出すことができます  
 Let me show you how this plays out  in a project that my firm recently completed.    	  これがどのように作用するか 私たちが最近手がけた プロジェクトを例にお話しします  
 We were hired to replace this building, which burned down.    	  私たちは焼け落ちてしまった 建物の再築を依頼されました  
 This is the center of a town called the Pines  in Fire Island in New York State.    	  場所はパインズという中心街で ニューヨーク州の ファイアー・アイランドという  
 It's a vacation community.    	  リゾート地です  
 We proposed a building that was audacious,  that was different than any of the forms that the community was used to,  and we were scared and our client was scared  and the community was scared,  so we created a series of photorealistic renderings  that we put onto Facebook  and we put onto Instagram,  and we let people start to do what they do:  share it, comment, like it, hate it.    	  私たちが提案したのは 斬新で— 現地に馴染んでいる どの建物とも異なるもので 私たちもクライアントも とても不安でした 地元の方も警戒していました そこで私たちが作ったのが 写真に近い完成予想図で これをFacebookや インスタグラムに載せて 流れに任せてみました シェアやコメントをしたり 「いいね！」がついたり 嫌われたり という具合です  
 But that meant that two years before the building was complete,  it was already a part of the community,  so that when the renderings looked exactly like the finished product,  there were no surprises.    	  こうして竣工までの ２年間を待たずして 地域の一部になることで 実際に建物が完成したときも 何の驚きもなくなります  
 This building was already a part of this community,  and then that first summer,  when people started arriving and sharing the building on social media,  the building ceased to be just an edifice and it became media,  because these, these are not just pictures of a building,  they're your pictures of a building.    	  この建物は すでに地元の 一部になっていたのです そして 竣工した最初の夏 建物を訪れた人々が ソーシャルメディアで共有するなり それは大建造物としてだけの 役目を終え メディアと化したのです なぜなら これらは 単なる建物の写真ではなく 皆さんが収めた 建物の写真だからです  
 And as you use them to tell your story,  they become part of your personal narrative,  and what you're doing is you're short-circuiting  all of our collective memory,  and you're making these charged symbols for us to understand.    	  それらの写真について語れば それは皆さんの一部になります つまり建築家の頭にある情報を 一気にショートさせ これらの感情がこもった象徴を 理解できるようにしてくれているのです  
 That means we don't need the Greeks anymore  to tell us what to think about architecture.    	  言うならば 建築について教えてもらうのに ギリシア人はもはや必要ないのです  
 We can tell each other what we think about architecture,  because digital media hasn't just changed the relationship between all of us,  it's changed the relationship between us and buildings.    	  私たちは建築についての思いを 互いに話し合えるのです デジタルメディアが変えたのは 私たちと建物の関係であり 人間同士の関係は健在だからです  
 Think for a second about those librarians back in Livingston.    	  リビングストンの図書館を 思い出してください  
 If that building was going to be built today,  the first thing they would do is go online and search "new libraries."    	  あの建物が 今作られるとしたら 関係者が最初にすることは ネットで「新しい図書館」を検索することでしょう  
 They would be bombarded by examples of experimentation, of innovation,  of pushing at the envelope of what a library can be.    	  彼らは様々な試みや イノベーション 図書館という概念の枠を超えた 建物を目にするでしょう  
 That's ammunition.    	  準備万端です  
 That's ammunition that they can take with them  to the mayor of Livingston, to the people of Livingston,  and say, there's no one answer to what a library is today.    	  この知識をもとに リビングストンの市長や 住民と話し合いの場を設けて 今日の図書館があるべき姿は 一つではないと言うことができます  
 Let's be a part of this.    	  こんな風に作っていきましょう  
 This abundance of experimentation  gives them the freedom to run their own experiment.    	  これまで多くの試みが行われてきたので 建築家にも 自由に実験を行う 余裕があるはずです  
 Everything is different now.    	  私たちは新しい時代にいます  
 Architects are no longer these mysterious creatures  that use big words and complicated drawings,  and you aren't the hapless public,  the consumer that won't accept anything that they haven't seen anymore.    	  建物家とは もったいぶった言葉や 難しい構図を掲げる ミステリアスな生き物ではなく 皆さんも 声のない大衆ではないのです もはや建築家の言うがままを 受け入れるだけではありません  
 Architects can hear you,  and you're not intimidated by architecture.    	  建築家は 皆さんに耳を傾けますし 皆さんも彼らを恐れません  
 That means that that pendulum swinging back and forth  from style to style, from movement to movement,  is irrelevant.    	  つまり左右に揺れながら スタイルからスタイルへ 時代の流れを移動してきた振り子は 意味をなさないのです  
 We can actually move forward  and find relevant solutions to the problems that our society faces.    	  私たちは実際に一歩前に出て 社会が直面する問題の 効果的な 解決策を見つけることができるのです  
 This is the end of architectural history,  and it means that the buildings of tomorrow  are going to look a lot different than the buildings of today.    	  これが建築の歴史の最後です ですから未来の建築は 今日の建築とは 非常に異なった姿になるはずです  
 It means that a public space in the ancient city of Seville  can be unique and tailored to the way that a modern city works.    	  スペインの古代都市セビリアの 公共空間が ユニークで かつ現代都市として 機能できるということ  
 It means that a stadium in Brooklyn can be a stadium in Brooklyn,  not some red-brick historical pastiche  of what we think a stadium ought to be.    	  ブルックリンの競技場は ブルックリンの競技場であり 赤レンガ造りの 歴史の寄せ集めのような 私たちが考える 競技場の姿ではないのです  
 It means that robots are going to build our buildings,  because we're finally ready for the forms that they're going to produce.    	  そしてロボットが建物を建てる日が 来るということです 彼らが作り出すフォームを ついに受け入れる準備ができたのです  
 And it means that buildings will twist to the whims of nature  instead of the other way around.    	  建物は自然をねじ込めるのではなく その気まぐれさに 従うことができるということです  
 It means that a parking garage in Miami Beach, Florida,  can also be a place for sports  and for yoga  and you can even get married there late at night.    	  フロリダ州のマイアミビーチにある 駐車場ビルが スポーツや ヨガを楽しむ場所になり 真夜中に結婚式を挙げることもできるのです  
   It means that three architects can dream about swimming  in the East River of New York,  and then raise nearly half a million dollars  from a community that gathered around their cause,  no one client anymore.    	   ３人の建築家が ニューヨークのイーストリバーで 泳ぐことを夢見れば その趣旨に賛同する人が集まり 50万ドル近くが得られるということです もはや一人のクライアントに頼りません  
 It means that no building is too small for innovation,  like this little reindeer pavilion  that's as muscly and sinewy as the animals it's designed to observe.    	  建物がどんなに小さくても イノベーションの対象になるということ 例えばこちらの「荒野の入り口」は 観察する野生動物のように 筋骨たくましい姿をしています  
 And it means that a building doesn't have to be beautiful  to be lovable,  like this ugly little building in Spain,  where the architects dug a hole,  packed it with hay,  and then poured concrete around it,  and when the concrete dried,  they invited someone to come and clean that hay out  so that all that's left when it's done  is this hideous little room  that's filled with the imprints and scratches of how that place was made,    	  そして建物は気に入られるために 美しい姿でなくてもよいのです スペインにある こちらの醜い 小さな建物は 建築家たちが穴を掘り 干し草を敷き詰め コンクリートで周りを覆いました コンクリートが乾くと 干し草を取り除いてくれる方を 招き入れました 干し草がなくなった後は 小さくて みっともない部屋ができます この部屋が生まれた背景を物語る 足跡や傷に溢れていますが  
 and that becomes the most sublime place to watch a Spanish sunset.    	  スペインの日没を鑑賞するための 最も崇高な場所になりました  
 Because it doesn't matter if a cow builds our buildings  or a robot builds our buildings.    	  牛が私たちの建物を建てようが ロボットが建てようが関係ありません  
 It doesn't matter how we build, it matters what we build.    	  大切なのは方法ではなく 何を建てるかということです  
 Architects already know how to make buildings that are greener  and smarter and friendlier.    	  建築家たちが心得ているのは 環境に優しくて 賢くて 友好的な建築方法です  
 We've just been waiting for all of you to want them.    	  あとは皆さんに 興味を持っていただくだけです  
 And finally, we're not on opposite sides anymore.    	  そして最後に 私たち建築家は 今や身近な存在です  
 Find an architect, hire an architect,  work with us to design better buildings, better cities, and a better world,  because the stakes are high.    	  建築家を探して 是非 雇ってください より良い建物 より良い街 より良い世界を一緒に作りましょう やり甲斐があります  
 Buildings don't just reflect our society, they shape our society  down to the smallest spaces:  the local libraries,  the homes where we raise our children,  and the walk that they take from the bedroom to the bathroom.    	  建物は 私たちの社会を映すだけではなく 社会を作ります 小さな空間から 地方の公立図書館 私たちの子供を育てる家 自分の部屋から バスルームに向かう廊下まで  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 This is my niece, Stella.    	  これは私の姪のステラです  
 She's just turned one and started to walk.    	  １歳になったばかりで 歩き始めたところです  
 And she's walking in that really cool way that one-year-olds do,  a kind of teetering, my-body's-moving- too-fast-for-my-legs kind of way.    	  １歳児らしい 最高のヨチヨチ歩きをします 危なっかしい 足と体がまだ合ってない歩き方です  
 It is absolutely gorgeous.    	  それはそれは素敵です  
 And one of her favorite things to do at the moment  is to stare at herself in the mirror.    	  彼女の今一番のお気に入りは 鏡に映った自分を見ることです  
 She absolutely loves her reflection.    	  自分の姿が大好きなのです  
 She giggles and squeals, and gives herself these big, wet kisses.    	  鏡に向かってキャッキャと歓声を上げたり  
 It is beautiful.    	  べったりキスしたりして 最高です  
 Apparently, all of her friends do this and my mom tells me that I used to do this,  and it got me thinking:  When did I stop doing this?    	  小さい子は皆そうだし 私の母も私が昔 そうだったと言います そこで考えました 自分はいつそれをやめたのだろうか  
 When is it suddenly not okay to love the way that we look?    	  いつそんな風に自分を愛するのをやめたのでしょうか？  
 Because apparently we don't.    	  だって みんなそうでしょう  
 Ten thousand people every month google,  "Am I ugly?"    	  月に１万人もの人が 「私ってブス？」とググるんです  
 This is Faye. Faye is 13 and she lives in Denver.    	  これはフェイ デンバー在住の13歳の女の子です  
 And like any teenager, she just wants to be liked and to fit in.    	  他の10代の若者と同じで 皆に好かれたいと思っています  
 It's Sunday night.    	  日曜日の夜  
 She's getting ready for the week ahead at school.    	  明日からの１週間の学校の用意をしながら  
 And she's slightly dreading it, and she's a bit confused because  despite her mom telling her all the time  that she's beautiful,  every day at school, someone tells her that she's ugly.    	  ちょっと憂鬱な気分になっています お母さんはいつも彼女に 綺麗だと言ってくれるけど 学校では毎日誰かが 彼女のことをブスだと言うからです  
 Because of the difference between what her mom tells her and what her friends  at school, or her peers at school are telling her,  she doesn't know who to believe.    	  お母さんが言うことと 学校の子たちの言うことが違うので 誰を信じていいか分からないのです  
 So, she takes a video of herself. She posts it to YouTube  and she asks people to please leave a comment:  "Am I pretty or am I ugly?"    	  だから自分撮りをして YouTubeに載せ 私が可愛いかそうでないか 誰か教えてくださいと尋ねてみました  
 Well, so far, Faye has received over 13,000 comments.    	  すると１万３千以上のコメントが来ました  
 Some of them are so nasty, they don't bear thinking about.    	  まともに考えてもいないような 酷いものもあったり  
 This is an average, healthy-looking teenage girl receiving this feedback  at one of the most emotionally vulnerable times in her life.    	  でもこれが 健康で平均的な 10代の女の子なのです 人生で最も多感な時期に  
 Thousands of people are posting videos like this,  mostly teenage girls, reaching out in this way.    	  何千人もの子がこんな投稿をしています そのほとんどが10代の女の子です  
 But what's leading them to do this?    	  でも どうしてなのでしょう  
 Well, today's teenagers are rarely alone.    	  今の10代は一人になることが滅多にないのです  
 They're under pressure to be online and available at all times,  talking, messaging, liking, commenting, sharing, posting —  it never ends.    	  いつもネットとつながっていなければならない重圧にあって おしゃべり、メッセージ、いいね、コメント、シェア、投稿ー それは終わりがありません  
 Never before have we been so connected,  so continuously, so instantaneously, so young.    	  こんなに「つながっている」時代はかつてありませんでした こんなに若い時分から 瞬間的 継続的に  
 And as one mom told me, it's like there's a party in their bedroom every night.    	  それは毎晩 自分の部屋でパーティーしているようです  
 There's simply no privacy.    	  プライバシーもなく  
 And the social pressures that go along with that are relentless.    	  その社会的プレッシャーは容赦ありません  
 This always-on environment is training our kids to value themselves  based on the number of likes they get  and the types of comments that they receive.    	  この常にオンラインの子たちは もらう「いいね」の数や コメントの内容で 自分の価値を判断します  
 There's no separation between online and offline life.    	  オンラインとオフラインの切り替えもありません  
 What's real or what isn't is really hard to tell the difference between.    	  現実とそうでないものを 見分けるのは至難の業です  
 And it's also really hard to tell the difference between what's authentic  and what's digitally manipulated.    	  何が真実で 何が架空に作られたものか 見分けるのも大変です  
 What's a highlight in someone's life versus what's normal in the context of everyday.    	  誰かの生活の中の嬉しい出来事と日々の平凡な出来事  
 And where are they looking to for inspiration?    	  彼らは一体どこで インスピレーションをもらうというのでしょう？  
 Well, you can see the kinds of images that are covering the newsfeeds  of girls today.    	  今どきの子たちのニュースフィードに上がってくるのは こんなもので埋め尽くされています  
 Size zero models still dominate our catwalks.    	  スタイル抜群のモデルたちが ファッションショーの舞台を占領し  
 Airbrushing is now routine.    	  画像修正は当たり前  
 And trends like #thinspiration, #thighgap,  #bikinibridge and #proana.    	  「やせ願望」 や 「サイギャップ」と呼ばれるガリガリの脚 ビキニラインに隙間ができる痩せた体「ビキニブリッジ」や  
 For those who don't know, #proana means pro-anorexia.    	  「拒食症を良しとする生き方」であるプロアナというトレンド  
 These trends are teamed with the stereotyping and flagrant objectification  of women in today's popular culture.    	  これらの流行が今日のポップカルチャーで 女性をステレオタイプ化したり 物として対象化しています  
 It is not hard to see what girls are benchmarking themselves against.    	  女の子たちは これらを元に自己評価します  
 But boys are not immune to this either.    	  男の子たちも例外ではありません  
 Aspiring to the chiseled jaw lines and ripped six packs of superhero-like sports stars  and playboy music artists.    	  スポーツ選手やモテ系のアーティストのように くっきりした顎や 割れた腹筋になりたいと願っています  
 But, what's the problem with all of this?    	  でも これらの問題って一体何でしょう？  
 Well, surely we want our kids to grow up as healthy, well balanced individuals.    	  私たちは子供たちに 健康でバランスの取れた 人間になるよう 願ってますよね  
 But in an image-obsessed culture, we are training our kids  to spend more time and mental effort on their appearance  at the expense of all of the other aspects of their identities.    	  でもイメージ先行の文化では 自分の容姿に時間と努力を もっとつぎ込めと言っているようなものです 他のいろんな個性を犠牲にしてもです  
 So, things like their relationships, the development of their physical abilities,  and their studies and so on begin to suffer.    	  だから 人間関係や身体能力の成長 学校の勉強などが おかしくなってきます  
 Six out of 10 girls are now choosing not to do something because they don't  think they look good enough.    	  女の子の10人中６人が 自分の容姿が良くないというだけで やる気を失っています  
 These are not trivial activities.    	  それも些細な活動ではなく  
 These are fundamental activities to their development as humans  and as contributors to society and to the workforce.    	  人間として また社会や職場に貢献する者としての 自身の成長に必要な 基本的活動が行えないのです  
 Thirty-one percent, nearly one in three teenagers, are withdrawing  from classroom debate. They're failing  to engage in classroom debate because  they don't want to draw attention to the way that they look.    	  10代の若者のうち ３分の１が 授業での議論に参加しようとしません 自分の容姿に自信がなくて 注目を浴びたくないから 出来ないのです  
 One in five are not showing up to class at all  on days when they don't feel good about it.    	  ５人に１人が 自分の容姿に嫌気がさした日は 学校に出て来ません テストでは  
 And when it comes to exams,  if you don't think you look good enough,  specifically if you don't think you are thin enough,  you will score a lower grade point average  And this is consistent across Finland, the U.S.    	  自分が格好良くないと思う子 つまり 痩せていないと思っている子は そう思っていない子たちよりも 低い点数を取るのです これは フィンランド アメリカ 中国でも同じです  
 and China, and is true regardless of how much you actually weigh.    	  実際の体重は問題ではないのです  
 So to be super clear, we're talking about the  way you think you look, not how you actually look.    	  言っておきますが これは 実際自分がどう見えるかではなくて 自分がどう見えていると「思う」かの話です  
 Low body confidence is undermining academic achievement.    	  自分の容姿への自信のなさは成績にも響くのです  
 But it's also damaging health.    	  また 健康にも影響します  
 Teenagers with low body confidence do less physical activity,  eat less fruits and vegetables,  partake in more unhealthy weight control practices  that can lead to eating disorders.    	  容姿に自信のない10代は 運動不足になり 野菜や果物をあまり食べたがりません また 不健康なダイエットをしたり 摂食障害にもなりがちです  
 They have lower self-esteem.    	  彼女らは 自尊心が低く  
 They're more easily influenced by people around them  and they're at greater risk of depression.    	  まわりの人に影響されやすいのです 鬱にもなりやすくなります  
 And we think it's for all of these reasons that they take more risks  with things like alcohol and drug use;  crash dieting; cosmetic surgery; unprotected, earlier sex;  and self-harm.    	  これらのことが アルコールやドラッグに結びつく 大きな引き金にもなっています 無茶なダイエット 美容整形 若い頃からの無防備なセックス 自傷行為  
 The pursuit of the perfect body is putting pressure on our healthcare systems  and costing our governments billions of dollars every year.    	  完璧な体への飽くなき追求が 医療システムにも負担をかけ 毎年そのために何億ドルもの お金が政府にかかってきます  
 And we don't grow out of it.    	  そしてそれには終わりがありません  
 Women who think they're overweight — again,  regardless of whether they are or are not —  have higher rates of absenteeism.    	  自分が太っていると思う女性は 何度も言いますが それが実際そうかどうかにかかわらず 学校や職場を常習的に休みやすいのです  
 Seventeen percent of women would  a day when they weren't feeling confident about the way that they look.    	  女性の実に17%が 自分の容姿に自信がない日には  
 Have a think about what this is doing  to our economy.    	  仕事の面接に現れません これが我々の経済に及ぼす影響を  
 If we could overcome this, what that  opportunity looks like.    	  考えてみて下さい これを乗り越えることさえ出来たら どんなに可能性が広がるかを  
 Unlocking this potential is in the interest  of every single one of us.    	  この可能性を解放してやることは 私たち一人ひとりにとっても 有益なのです  
 But how do we do that?    	  でもどうすれば良いのでしょう  
 Well, talking, on its own, only gets you so far.    	  まず 自分がそれについて話すこと それだけでも違います  
 It's not enough by itself.    	  でもそれだけでは十分ではありません  
 If you actually want to make a difference,  you have to do something.    	  もし本当に変えていきたいと思うなら 何かをしないといけません  
 And we've learned there are three key ways:  The first is we have to educate for body confidence.    	  それには３つの方法があります １つは 容姿にもっと自信を持てる教育をすること  
 We have to help our teenagers develop  strategies to overcome image-related pressures  and build their self-esteem.    	  子供たちに 外見への重圧をはねのけて 自尊心を持てるようなやり方を 教えてあげるのです  
 Now, the good news is that there are  many programs out there available to do this.    	  喜ばしいことに そのためのプログラムが今はたくさんあります  
 The bad news is that most of them don't work.    	  でも悪いことに そのほとんどが役に立っていません  
 I was shocked to learn that many well-meaning  programs are inadvertently actually  making the situation worse. So we need to make damn sure that  the programs that our kids are receiving  are not only having a positive impact,  but having a lasting impact as well.    	  私がびっくりしたのは 多くのこの意義あるプログラムが 実際は 知らないうちに 事態をさらに悪化させているということです だから私たちは 子供たちが受けるプログラムが プラスの効果があることだけでなく その効果が持続するものであるかどうかも しっかり見極めないといけません  
 And the research shows that the best programs  address six key areas:  The first is the influence of family, friends and relationships.    	  調査によると一番良いプログラムは ６つの大切な分野に焦点を当てたものになります １つ目は 家族や友達 恋愛関係が及ぼす影響  
 The second is media and celebrity culture,  then how to handle teasing and bullying, the way we compete and compare with one another  based on looks,  talking about appearance — some people  call this "body talk" or "fat talk" —  and finally, the foundations of respecting  and looking after yourself.    	  ２つ目は メディアやセレブ・カルチャーについて それから からかいやいじめへの対処の仕方 容姿についてお互いが 競ったり比べること 「ボディートーク」や「ファットトーク」とも言う 外見を卑下するような会話 最後に 自分を尊重して  
 These six things are crucial starting points  for anyone serious about delivering  body-confidence education that works.    	  大事にするという基本姿勢 これら６つのことが 容姿に自信を取り戻すべく 頑張ってこのプログラムに参加する人の 重要な出発点となります  
 An education is critical,  but tackling this problem is going  to require each and everyone of us  for the women and girls in our own lives.    	  教育は極めて大切ですが この問題に取り組むには まず我々一人ひとりが成長して 自分の周りの女性たちに  
 Challenging the status quo of how  women are seen and talked about in our own circles.    	  良いお手本となるよう振る舞う事が求められています 自分の周りで 女性がどう見られ 話されているか  
 It is not okay that we judge the contribution  of our politicians by their haircuts  or the size of their breasts,  or to infer that the determination or the success  of an Olympian is down to her not being a looker.    	  その現状を変えていくこと 政治家の良しあしは その髪型や 胸の大きさで 決められるべきではない オリンピック選手が 美人でなかったから  
 We need to start judging people by what they do,  not what they look like.    	  選ばれたり勝てなかったと言うのもおかしい 我々は 外見ではなく その行いで  
 We can all start by taking responsibility for the types of pictures  and comments that we post  on our own social networks.    	  人を評価し始めるべきです 自分のSNSで投稿する 写真やコメントに責任を  
 We can compliment people based on their effort  and their actions  and not on their appearance.    	  持つことから始めましょう 相手の外見ではなく その努力や行いに対して  
 And let me ask you,  when was the last time that you  kissed a mirror?    	  賛辞を与えましょう ちょっとお聞きしますが あなたが最後に鏡にキスしたのは いつですか？  
 Ultimately, we need to work together  as communities, as governments  and as businesses to really change this culture of ours  so that our kids grow up valuing their whole selves,  valuing individuality, diversity, inclusion.    	  最終的に この慣習を変えていくには 自治体や政府 会社がいっしょになって やる必要があります 子供たちが個性や人との違いに価値を見出し 自分を丸ごと愛せるように  
 We need to put the people that are making a real difference  on our pedestals, making a difference  in the real world.    	  私たちは 実社会でそういった 変化を起こせる人を 前面に押し出すべきです  
 Giving them the airtime, because only then  will we create a different world.    	  彼らに発表する機会を そうしたら 世の中は変わってきます  
 A world where our kids are free to become  the best versions of themselves,  where the way they think they look  never holds them back from being who they are  or achieving what they want in life.    	  子供たちが自分自身の最高のモデルになれる社会を 子供たちが自分自身の最高のモデルになれる社会を 自分の外見が 自分らしくいることや 人生でやりたいことに 障害とならないと思えるような社会を  
 Think about what this might mean for someone in your life.    	  自分の実生活に当てはめて考えてみて下さい  
 Who have you got in mind?    	  誰が思い浮かびますか？  
 Is it your wife?    	  奥さんですか？  
 Your sister?    	  あなたの姉妹ですか？  
 Your daughter?    	  娘さんですか？  
 Your niece?    	  それとも姪っ子ですか？  
 Your friend? It could just be the woman a couple of seats away from you today.    	  お友達？ それは今日あなたが座っている  
 What would it mean for her  if she were freed from that voice  of her inner critic, nagging her to have  longer legs, thinner thighs, smaller stomach,  shorter feet?    	  席の近くの女性かもしれません 足が長くないとか 太ももが太い お腹がぺタンコでない 足のサイズが大きいなど そんな内なる批判の声から 彼女が解放されたら どうでしょうか？  
 What could it mean for her if we overcame this  and unlocked her potential in that way?    	  そんな事はどうでも良いものとして 彼女の可能性を解き放ってあげたら どうなるでしょう？  
 Right now, our culture's obsession  with image is holding us all back.    	  今現在 この外見至上主義の文化が 私たちの行く手を大きく阻んでいます  
 But let's show our kids the truth.    	  しかし 子供たちに本当のことを教えてあげましょう  
 Let's show them that the way you look is just one part of your identity  and that the truth is we love them  for who they are  and what they do  and how they make us feel.    	  外見は彼らの個性の一部にすぎないことを 私があなたを好きなのは あなたそのもの あなたがやること うれしい気持ちにさせてくれるからだということを  
 Let's build self-esteem into our school curriculums.    	  教えてあげるのです 学校の履修課程に自尊心という項目を作りましょう  
 Let's each and every one of us change the way  we talk and compare ourselves to other people.    	  自分たちのことを話したり人と比べたりするのを 私たち一人一人が 変えていきましょう  
 And let's work together as communities,  from grassroots to governments,  so that the happy little one-year-olds  of today become the confident  changemakers of tomorrow.    	  共同体として一緒に変えていくのです 草の根運動から国家レベルまで 今日のこのハッピーな１歳児たちが 自信をもって 明日の変革を 起こす人となってくれるように  
 Let's do this.    	  是非一緒に変えていきましょう  
 On November 5th, 1990,  a man named El-Sayyid Nosair walked  into a hotel in Manhattan  and assassinated Rabbi Meir Kahane, the leader of the Jewish Defense League.    	  1990年11月5日 エル・サイード・ノサイルという男が マンハッタンのホテルを訪れ ユダヤ防衛同盟の指導者 ラビ・メイル・カハネを殺害しました  
 Nosair was initially found not guilty of the murder,  but while serving time on lesser charges,  he and other men began planning attacks  on a dozen New York City landmarks,  including tunnels, synagogues  and the United Nations headquarters.    	  ユダヤ防衛同盟の指導者 ラビ・メイル・カハネを殺害しました 当初 ノサイルは 殺人容疑では無罪とされ ほかの軽い罪状で 服役しましたが その間 仲間と 爆破計画を立て始めます ニューヨークの象徴的建造物を 狙ったもので トンネルやユダヤ教の教堂 国連本部も標的にされました  
 Thankfully, those plans were foiled  by an FBI informant.    	  幸いにも これらの計画は FBI捜査官の手で 未遂に終わりましたが  
 Sadly, the 1993 bombing  of the World Trade Center was not.    	  残念なことに 1993年の 世界貿易センタービル爆破は 止められませんでした  
 Nosair would eventually be convicted  for his involvement in the plot.    	  ノサイルは のちに この爆破計画に関与したとして 有罪判決を受けます  
 El-Sayyid Nosair is my father.    	  エル・サイード・ノサイルは 私の父です  
 I was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania  in 1983 to him, an Egyptian engineer,  and a loving American mother and grade school teacher,  who together tried their best  to create a happy childhood for me.    	  私は ペンシルバニア州ピッツバーグで 1983年 エジプト人技術者である父と 小学校教諭で 愛情深い アメリカ人の母のもとに生まれました 両親は 私の幸せを願い 懸命に育ててくれました 両親は 私の幸せを願い 懸命に育ててくれました  
 It wasn't until I was seven years old  that our family dynamic started to change.    	  しかし 私が７歳のとき 家族のあり方が変わり始めます  
 My father exposed me to a side of Islam  that few people, including the majority of Muslims,  get to see.    	  父は 私をイスラム教の ある一派に 引き入れました 一握りの人しか― 大多数のイスラム教徒ですら 会うこともないような一派です  
 It's been my experience that when people  take the time to interact with one another,  it doesn't take long to realize that for the most part,  we all want the same things out of life.    	  私の経験では 時間をかけて 人と よく話をすれば たいていの場合 すぐに 人生に求めることは 皆 同じだとわかります  
 However, in every religion, in every population,  you'll find a small percentage of people  who hold so fervently to their beliefs  that they feel they must use any means necessary  to make others live as they do.    	  しかし どの宗教や民族でも 熱心な信奉者の数パーセントは 熱心な信奉者の数パーセントは どんな手段を使ってでも ほかの人たちにも 同じ生き方をさせねばと 思っているものなのです  
 A few months prior to his arrest,  he sat me down and explained that  for the past few weekends, he and some friends  had been going to a shooting range on Long Island  for target practice.    	  父が逮捕される数ヶ月前 父は私を座らせて こう言いました 「ここ最近 週末は仲間とともに ロング・アイランドの射撃場に通って 射撃訓練をしていた  
 He told me I'd be going with him the next morning.    	  明日の朝は お前も行くんだ」  
 We arrived at Calverton Shooting Range,  which unbeknownst to our group was being watched  by the FBI.    	  そして カルバートン射撃場に行きました 私たちは知りませんでしたが そこは FBIの監視対象でした  
 When it was my turn to shoot,  my father helped me hold the rifle to my shoulder  and explained how to aim at the target  about 30 yards off.    	  私が撃つ番になると 父は ライフルを肩にかけさせてくれ 私が撃つ番になると 父は ライフルを肩にかけさせてくれ 30メートル先の標的の狙い方を 教えてくれました 30メートル先の標的の狙い方を 教えてくれました  
 That day, the last bullet I shot  hit the small orange light that sat on top of the target  and to everyone's surprise, especially mine,  the entire target burst into flames.    	  その日 私が最後に撃った弾は 標的の上にある 小さなオレンジ色のランプに命中し 誰もが―特に私自身が― 驚いたことに 標的は見事に 燃え上がりました  
 My uncle turned to the other men,  and in Arabic said, "Ibn abuh."    	  おじは ほかの仲間に向かって アラビア語で “Ibn Abuh” と言いました  
 Like father, like son.    	  「この父にして この子あり」  
 They all seemed to get a really big laugh out of that comment,  but it wasn't until a few years later  that I fully understood what they thought was so funny.    	  皆は これを聞いて 大笑いしていましたが 私は数年たってようやく その真の意味を 理解することとなりました  
 They thought they saw in me the same destruction  my father was capable of.    	  皆は 私の中に 破壊的な父の姿を見たのです  
 Those men would eventually be convicted  of placing a van filled with 1,500 pounds of explosives  into the sub-level parking lot of the World Trade Center's North Tower,  causing an explosion that killed six people  and injured over 1,000 others.    	  この人たちは のちに有罪判決を受けますが 爆発物 約700キロを積んだバンを 世界貿易センタービルの ノース・タワーの地下駐車場に停車し 爆破させ ６名の命を奪い 千人以上の負傷者を出しました  
 These were the men I looked up to.    	  これが 私が尊敬し  
 These were the men I called ammu, which means uncle.    	  おじさん―“ammu”と呼び 慕っていた人たちです  
 By the time I turned 19,  I had already moved 20 times in my life,  and that instability during my childhood  didn't really provide an opportunity  to make many friends.    	  19歳になる頃には 私はすでに20回もの 引っ越しを経験していました 子どもの頃 住む場所を転々としたお蔭で 私は たくさんの友人を作る 機会に恵まれませんでした 私は たくさんの友人を作る 機会に恵まれませんでした  
 Each time I would begin to feel comfortable around someone,  it was time to pack up and move to the next town.    	  ようやく仲良くなったかと思えば もう次の町に 移らなければならなかったのです  
 Being the perpetual new face in class,  I was frequently the target of bullies.    	  クラスでは 常に新入りだったこともあり よく いじめの対象になりました  
 I kept my identity a secret from my classmates  to avoid being targeted,  but as it turns out, being the quiet, chubby new kid in class  was more than enough ammunition.    	  同級生たちから いじめられないよう 素性は隠していましたが 物静かで ぽっちゃりした 新顔というだけで 十分な攻撃材料だったのです  
 So for the most part, I spent my time at home  reading books and watching TV  or playing video games.    	  ですから 私は たいてい家で 本を読んだり テレビを見たり ビデオゲームをしたりして 過ごしました  
 For those reasons, my social skills were lacking,  to say the least,  and growing up in a bigoted household,  I wasn't prepared for the real world.    	  こういったわけで 控えめに言っても 私は 社交性に乏しい人間となり 偏った思想の家庭に育ち 現実社会に旅立つ準備も できないままでした 私は 恣意的な価値基準で  
 I'd been raised to judge people  like a person's race or religion.    	  人を判断するよう 育てられてきました 人種や宗教などで 人を見ていたのです  
 So what opened my eyes?    	  では 何が私を 変えたのでしょう？  
 One of my first experiences  that challenged this way of thinking  was during the 2000 presidential elections.    	  この考え方を初めて 見直すことになる出来事は この考え方を初めて 見直すことになる出来事は 2000年の大統領選のときに 起こりました  
 Through a college prep program,  I was able to take part  in the National Youth Convention in Philadelphia.    	  大学準備プログラムで 私は フィラデルフィアで 全国学生議会に参加しました 私は フィラデルフィアで 全国学生議会に参加しました  
 My particular group's focus was on youth violence,  and having been the victim of bullying for most of my life,  this was a subject in which I felt particularly passionate.    	  私のグループは 若者の暴力対策を柱に据えており 人生のほとんどを いじめられて過ごした私は 特に熱心に取り組みました  
 The members of our group came from many different walks of life.    	  グループには 様々な背景の人たちが 集まっていました  
 One day toward the end of the convention,  I found out that one of the kids I had befriended  was Jewish.    	  会議も終盤に差しかかった ある日 仲良くなった人たちの中に ユダヤ人の子がいると知りました 仲良くなった人たちの中に ユダヤ人の子がいると知りました  
 Now, it had taken several days  for this detail to come to light,  and I realized that there was no natural animosity between the two of us.    	  私たちは数日間 何も知らず 共に過ごしていたのです イスラム教徒とユダヤ教徒は 最初から憎み合う運命にはないのです  
 I had never had a Jewish friend before,  and frankly I felt a sense of pride  in having been able to overcome a barrier  that for most of my life I had been led to believe  was insurmountable.    	  イスラム教徒とユダヤ教徒は 最初から憎み合う運命にはないのです それまでユダヤ人の 友だちがいなかった私は この障害を 乗り越えられたことを 素直に誇りに思いました これまでずっと 無理だと 思い込んでいた障害でしたから  
 Another major turning point came when  I found a summer job at Busch Gardens,  an amusement park.    	  つぎに私を大きく変えたのは 「ブッシュガーデン」という遊園地で ひと夏 働いたときです  
 There, I was exposed to people from all sorts of faiths and cultures,  and that experience proved to be fundamental  to the development of my character.    	  そこでは 様々な信条や文化の 人たちに触れました その経験は 私の人格形成に 大きな影響を与えました  
 Most of my life, I'd been taught  that homosexuality was a sin, and by extension,  that all gay people were a negative influence.    	  それまでの人生では 同性愛は罪であり ひいては― ゲイは 悪い影響を与えると 教えられてきました  
 As chance would have it, I had the opportunity  to work with some of the gay performers  at a show there,  and soon found that many were the kindest,  least judgmental people I had ever met.    	  幸運にも そこで行われたショーで ゲイのパフォーマーと 仕事をする機会に恵まれました ゲイのパフォーマーと 仕事をする機会に恵まれました すぐに 彼らの多くが 誰よりも優しく― 相手を色眼鏡で見ない人たちだと わかりました  
 Being bullied as a kid  created a sense of empathy in me  toward the suffering of others,  and it comes very unnaturally to me  to treat people who are kind  in any other way than how I would want to be treated.    	  いじめられっ子だった私は 他人の痛みに対して ある種の共感を― 覚えたものですが 私が望む以上に とにかく優しい― そんな人たちと 向き合うのは とても不思議な感覚でした  
 Because of that feeling, I was able  to contrast the stereotypes I'd been taught as a child  with real life experience and interaction.    	  そうした感覚が あったからこそ 私は子ども時代に 植え込まれた固定観念を 実生活での経験や交流と 突き合わせることができたのです  
 I don't know what it's like to be gay,  but I'm well acquainted with being judged  for something that's beyond my control.    	  ゲイであることの辛さは 想像もつきませんが 自分にはどうしようもないことで 判断される辛さは 身をもって知っています  
 Then there was "The Daily Show."    	  そして 『ザ・デイリー・ショー』では  
 On a nightly basis, Jon Stewart forced me  to be intellectually honest with myself about my own bigotry  and helped me to realize that a person's race,  religion or sexual orientation  had nothing to do with the quality of one's character.    	  毎晩 ジョン・スチュワートを見て 私は 自らの偏見と 向き合わさせられました お蔭で 人種や 宗教 性的嗜好は 人の善し悪しを決めるものではないと 悟りました  
 He was in many ways a father figure to me  when I was in desperate need of one.    	  父親をすごく欲していた私にとって ジョンは いろんな意味で 父親のような存在でした  
 Inspiration can often come from an unexpected place,  and the fact that a Jewish comedian had done more  to positively influence my worldview  than my own extremist father  is not lost on me.    	  啓示とは 時に 思いがけないところから来るものです 私の世界観は 極端な考えを持つ父親よりも 一人のコメディアンに大きな影響を受け 良い方向に導かれていったことは 私の目にも明らかでした  
 One day, I had a conversation with my mother  about how my worldview was starting to change,  and she said something to me  that I will hold dear to my heart  for as long as I live.    	  ある日 母とこんな話をしました 私の価値観が どう変わりつつあるのか そのときの母の言葉は 私が 後生大事にするものとなりました 私が 後生大事にするものとなりました  
 She looked at me with the weary eyes  of someone who had experienced  enough dogmatism to last a lifetime, and said,  "I'm tired of hating people."    	  母は 生涯を教条主義に染めた人に 特有の疲れ果てた目で 母は 生涯を教条主義に染めた人に 特有の疲れ果てた目で 私を見やると こう言ったのです 「他人を忌み嫌うことに疲れたわ」 その瞬間 私は憎しみを持ち続けることが  
 In that instant, I realized how much negative energy it takes to hold that hatred inside of you.    	  どれだけエネルギーを 無駄に消耗するのか悟りました  
 Zak Ebrahim is not my real name.    	  ザック・エブラヒムは 私の本名ではありません  
 I changed it when my family decided to end our connection with my father  and start a new life.    	  家族が父との関係を断ち 新しい人生を歩むと 決めたときに 付けた名前です  
 So why would I out myself  and potentially put myself in danger?    	  では なぜ私は こんな告白をして 自らを危険にさらすのでしょう？  
 Well, that's simple.    	  それは簡単なことです  
 I do it in the hopes that perhaps someone someday  who is compelled to use violence  may hear my story and realize  that there is a better way,  that although I had been subjected  to this violent, intolerant ideology,  that I did not become fanaticized.    	  暴力を強制されている人が 私の話を聞いて 暴力を強制されている人が 私の話を聞いて 他にも良い方法があると 気付いてほしいと願っているからです 他にも良い方法があると 気付いてほしいと願っているからです 私はこの暴力的で 偏狭なイデオロギーに さらされてきましたが それに染まることは ありませんでした  
 Instead, I choose to use my experience  to fight back against terrorism,  against the bigotry.    	  その代わり 私はこの経験を生かして テロに抗い この偏見に抗うことを 選んだのです  
 I do it for the victims of terrorism  and their loved ones,  for the terrible pain and loss that terrorism has forced upon their lives.    	  それは テロの犠牲者と その愛する人々のためであり 彼らがテロによって強いられた― 激しい苦痛や喪失感のため でもありました  
 For the victims of terrorism, I will speak out  against these senseless acts  and condemn my father's actions.    	  テロの犠牲者の方々のために 私は立ち上がり こうした非情な行為に断固反対し 私の父の行いを非難します  
 And with that simple fact, I stand here as proof  that violence isn't inherent in one's religion or race,  and the son does not have to follow  the ways of his father.    	  この単純明快な事実とともに 私は身をもって 暴力は 宗教や人種に 最初からあるものではないと証明します 息子だからといって 父親のやり方に 従う必要はありません  
 I am not my father.    	  私は 父ではないのですから  
 Thank you.   Thank you, everybody.   Thank you all.   Thanks a lot.     	  ありがとうございました（拍手） 皆さん ありがとう（拍手） ありがとうございます（拍手） 本当にありがとう（拍手）  
 Right now  you have a movie playing inside your head.    	  今 この瞬間 あなたは頭の中で映画を見ています  
 It's an amazing multi-track movie.    	  マルチトラックのすごい映画です  
 It has 3D vision and surround sound  for what you're seeing and hearing right now,  but that's just the start of it.    	  あなたが今 見聞きしていることを 3Dやサラウンド音響で再生します これはほんの序の口です  
 Your movie has smell and taste and touch.    	  映画なのに匂いや味があり 触れることもできます  
 It has a sense of your body,  pain, hunger, orgasms.    	  身体の感覚があるので 痛みもあるし お腹もすくし オルガスムもあります  
 It has emotions,  anger and happiness.    	  さらに 感情があり 怒りや幸福を感じます  
 It has memories, like scenes from your childhood  playing before you.    	  記憶もあり 子どもの頃の場面が 目の前で再生されるのです  
 And it has this constant voiceover narrative  in your stream of conscious thinking.    	  そして 常に意識の流れの ナレーションが流れています  
 At the heart of this movie is you  experiencing all this directly.    	  この映画の主人公は これらすべてを 直接経験するあなた自身なのです  
 This movie is your stream of consciousness,  the subject of experience  of the mind and the world.    	  この映画はあなたの 意識の流れそのものであり つまり 心の中と世界における経験の主体なのです  
 Consciousness is one of the fundamental facts  of human existence.    	  意識とは人間の実存における 基本要素の１つです  
 Each of us is conscious.    	  誰でも意識があります  
 We all have our own inner movie,  you and you and you.    	  私たちは皆 内なる映画を持っているのです あなたも あなたも あなたもです  
 There's nothing we know about more directly.    	  私たちがこれより直接的に 知っているものは他にありません  
 At least, I know about my consciousness directly.    	  少なくとも 私は自分の意識については 直接的に知っています  
 I can't be certain that you guys are conscious.    	  あなた方に意識があるかについては はっきり分かりませんが  
 Consciousness also is what makes life worth living.    	  意識は人生を生きる価値のあるものに してもくれます  
 If we weren't conscious, nothing in our lives  would have meaning or value.    	  意識がなかったら 生きることの 意味や価値は無くなってしまいます  
 But at the same time, it's the most  mysterious phenomenon in the universe.    	  しかし同時に 意識は宇宙で最も神秘的なものなのです  
 Why are we conscious?    	  なぜ私たちには意識があるのでしょうか？  
 Why do we have these inner movies?    	  なぜ内なる映画があるのでしょうか？  
 Why aren't we just robots  who process all this input,  produce all that output,  without experiencing the inner movie at all?    	  どうして私たちは単に インプットを処理して アウトプットを作り出す 内なる映画などを経験しない ロボットではないのでしょうか？  
 Right now, nobody knows the answers  to those questions.    	  現時点では 誰もこれらの質問に 答えられません  
 I'm going to suggest that to integrate consciousness  into science, some radical ideas may be needed.    	  意識を科学に融合させるためには 幾分過激な発想が必要かもしれません  
 Some people say a science of consciousness  is impossible.    	  意識の科学は 不可能だと言う人もいます  
 Science, by its nature, is objective.    	  科学は本質的に客観的です  
 Consciousness, by its nature, is subjective.    	  意識は本質的に主観的です  
 So there can never be a science of consciousness.    	  それゆえ意識の科学はあり得ないのです  
 For much of the 20th century, that view held sway.    	  20世紀の大半は そういう見解が 幅をきかせていました  
 Psychologists studied behavior objectively,  neuroscientists studied the brain objectively,  and nobody even mentioned consciousness.    	  心理学者は行動を客観的に研究し 神経科学者は脳を客観的に 研究してきましたが 意識に言及した学者は かつていませんでした  
 Even 30 years ago, when TED got started,  there was very little scientific work  on consciousness.    	  TEDが始まった 30年前でさえ 意識に関する科学的研究は ほとんどなされていませんでした  
 Now, about 20 years ago,  all that began to change.    	  20年前から 変化の兆しが見え始めました  
 Neuroscientists like Francis Crick  and physicists like Roger Penrose  said now is the time for science  to attack consciousness.    	  フランシス・クリックのような神経科学者や ロジャー・ペンローズのような物理学者が 今こそ 科学が意識に 取り組む時だと言いました  
 And since then, there's been a real explosion,  a flowering of scientific work  on consciousness.    	  それ以来 意識に関する 科学的研究が 急増し 大いに花開いています  
 And this work has been wonderful. It's been great.    	  この研究は素晴らしく偉大なものです  
 But it also has some fundamental  limitations so far.    	  しかし これまでのところ 根本的な限界もありました  
 The centerpiece  of the science of consciousness in recent years  has been the search for correlations,  correlations between certain areas of the brain  and certain states of consciousness.    	  近年行われてきた 意識の科学の中心は 相関関係の探求― 脳の特定の領域と 特定の意識の状態との 相関関係の研究でした  
 We saw some of this kind of work  from Nancy Kanwisher and the wonderful work  she presented just a few minutes ago.    	  こうした研究では ナンシー・カンウィッシャーから 素晴らしい成果の話を たった今聞きました  
 Now we understand much better, for example,  the kinds of brain areas that go along with  the conscious experience of seeing faces or of feeling pain  or of feeling happy.    	  このように理解はずっと進んでいて 例えば 意識的な経験に 付随する脳の領域はよく理解されています 顔を見たり 痛みを感じたり 幸せを感じたりするような領域です  
 But this is still a science of correlations.    	  しかし これは相関関係の科学から 抜け切れていません  
 It's not a science of explanations.    	  科学的な説明には至らないのです  
 We know that these brain areas  go along with certain kinds of conscious experience,  but we don't know why they do.    	  これらの脳の領域が 特定の意識的経験に付随することは 分かっているのですが なぜそうであるのかは 分かっていないのです  
 I like to put this by saying  that this kind of work from neuroscience  is answering some of the questions  we want answered about consciousness,  the questions about what certain brain areas do  and what they correlate with.    	  こう申し上げましょう 神経科学によるこうした研究は 答えが求められていた 意識についての いくつかの問いに答えつつあります 特定の脳の領域に関する問いや それが何と相関しているかなどです  
 But in a certain sense, those are the easy problems.    	  しかしある意味では それらは単純な問いです  
 No knock on the neuroscientists.    	  神経科学者にとっては 大したことではありません  
 There are no truly easy problems with consciousness.    	  意識の問題となると単純ではありません  
 But it doesn't address the real mystery  at the core of this subject:  why is it that all that physical processing in a brain  should be accompanied by consciousness at all?    	  それなのに このテーマの核心である 真の謎に触れていないのです 脳内のすべての物理的処理は なぜ意識を伴っているのでしょうか？  
 Why is there this inner subjective movie?    	  なぜ内なる主観的な映画があるのでしょうか？  
 Right now, we don't really have a bead on that.    	  今のところ 本当に何も分かっていません  
 let's just give neuroscience a few years.    	  数年あれば 神経科学で  
 It'll turn out to be another emergent phenomenon  like traffic jams, like hurricanes,  like life, and we'll figure it out.    	  解明できると思うかもしれません 突発的な現象のひとつとして 交通渋滞やハリケーンや人生のように 答えが見出されるでしょう  
 The classical cases of emergence  are all cases of emergent behavior,  how a traffic jam behaves,  how a hurricane functions,  how a living organism reproduces  and adapts and metabolizes,  all questions about objective functioning.    	  出現の典型的な例は あらゆる突発的な行動です 交通渋滞がどのように起こり ハリケーンがどのように機能し 生き物がどのように再生産したり 順応したり代謝するのかなど 客観的な働きに関する問いばかりです  
 You could apply that to the human brain  in explaining some of the behaviors  and the functions of the human brain  as emergent phenomena:  how we walk, how we talk, how we play chess,  all these questions about behavior.    	  人間の脳に当てはめれば いくつかの行動や 人間の脳の機能を突発的な現象として 説明できるでしょう 例えば 歩き方 話し方 チェスの仕方などは すべて行動に関する問いです  
 But when it comes to consciousness,  questions about behavior  are among the easy problems.    	  しかし 意識となると 行動についての問いは 単純な部類になります  
 When it comes to the hard problem,  that's the question of why is it  that all this behavior  is accompanied by subjective experience?    	  難問に分類されるのは 一体 どうして すべての行動が 主観的な経験を伴うのかという問いです  
 And here, the standard paradigm  even the standard paradigms of neuroscience,  don't really, so far, have that much to say.    	  そして出現についての 標準的なバラダイムは― 神経科学の標準的なパラダイムでさえ あまり言及していないのです  
 Now, I'm a scientific materialist at heart.    	  さて 私は唯物論的科学者だと思っています  
 I want a scientific theory of consciousness  that works,  and for a long time, I banged my head  against the wall  looking for a theory of consciousness  in purely physical terms  that would work.    	  私は意識をうまく説明できる 科学的理論を 長い間 探し求めており 意識について 純粋に物理用語で語れる理論を 求める中で 壁にぶち当たってきました  
 But I eventually came to the conclusion  that that just didn't work for systematic reasons.    	  そして 体系的な理由から うまくいかないのだという結論に達しました  
 It's a long story,  but the core idea is just that what you get  from purely reductionist explanations  in physical terms, in brain-based terms,  is stories about the functioning of a system,  its structure, its dynamics,  the behavior it produces,  great for solving the easy problems —  how we behave, how we function —  but when it comes to subjective experience —  why does all this feel like something from the inside? —    	  話すと長くなりますが 主要な考えは単純で 物理用語や脳科学的な言葉などの 純粋に還元主義的な説明からは 体系の働き方や構造・力学 その結果である行動などの 説明が得られます これらは単純な問い― 行動や機能の仕方などには 適していますが 主観的な経験― なぜすべてが内側から 発せられるように感じるかなどは  
 that's something fundamentally new,  and it's always a further question.    	  まったく新しいものであり 常にさらに深遠な問いなのです  
 So I think we're at a kind of impasse here.    	  ここで行き詰ってしまいます  
 We've got this wonderful, great chain of explanation,  we're used to it, where physics explains chemistry,  chemistry explains biology,  biology explains parts of psychology.    	  説明が素晴らしいことに 繋がっており 私たちはそれに慣れています 物理が化学を説明し 化学が生物学を説明し 生物学は心理学を部分的に 説明するというものです  
 But consciousness  doesn't seem to fit into this picture.    	  しかし意識は この図式に当てはまりません  
 On the one hand, it's a datum  that we're conscious.    	  かたや 私たちに意識があることは 感覚与件です  
 On the other hand, we don't know how  to accommodate it into our scientific view of the world.    	  その一方 それを 科学的な世界観にどう当てはめてよいか 分かりません  
 So I think consciousness right now  is a kind of anomaly,  one that we need to integrate  into our view of the world, but we don't yet see how.    	  だから 意識は現在では ある種 不合理な存在だと思います 世界観に組み込む必要があるものの その方法が分からないのです  
 Faced with an anomaly like this,  radical ideas may be needed,  and I think that we may need one or two ideas  that initially seem crazy  before we can come to grips with consciousness scientifically.    	  このような不合理に直面したときには 過激な発想がいるのかもしれません 意識を科学的に 理解するためには 一見 クレージーに感じられるような 発想の１つや２つは必要かもしれません  
 Now, there are a few candidates  for what those crazy ideas might be.    	  さて クレージーな発想の候補が いくつかあります  
 My friend Dan Dennett, who's here today, has one.    	  今日ここにいる友人のダン・デネットは その１つの持ち主です  
 His crazy idea is that there is no hard problem  of consciousness.    	  ダンは意識に関する難題は 存在しないと考えています  
 The whole idea of the inner subjective movie  involves a kind of illusion or confusion.    	  内なる主観的な映画という考え方は ある種の錯覚や混乱を伴っています  
 the objective functions, the behaviors of the brain,  and then we've explained everything  that needs to be explained.    	  実際 客観的な機能や脳の行動を 説明しさえすればいいのであり そうすれば説明されるべきものは すべて説明されるのです  
 Well I say, more power to him.    	  説得力がありますね 意識に関して 純粋に還元主義的で  
 That's the kind of radical idea  that we need to explore  if you want to have a purely reductionist  At the same time, for me and for many other people,  that view is a bit too close to simply  denying the datum of consciousness  to be satisfactory.    	  脳科学的な理論を得たいのなら 探究する必要のある 過激な発想だと言えるでしょう 同時に私や他の多くの人にとっても この見解はあまりにも単純に 意識の感覚与件を否定しているので 満足のいくものではありません  
 So I go in a different direction.    	  別の方向に話を進めましょう  
 In the time remaining,  I want to explore two crazy ideas  that I think may have some promise.    	  残りの時間で 発展する可能性のある２つの クレージーな発想について お話したいと思います  
 The first crazy idea  is that consciousness is fundamental.    	  最初のクレージーな発想は 意識は基本的なものだとするものです  
 Physicists sometimes take some aspects of the universe  as fundamental building blocks:  space and time and mass.    	  物理学者は時折 宇宙のある側面を 基本的構成単位として捉えます 空間や時間 質量などです  
 They postulate fundamental laws governing them,  like the laws of gravity or of quantum mechanics.    	  それらは自らを支配する 基本的な法則を前提としています 重力の法則や量子力学などです  
 These fundamental properties and laws  aren't explained in terms of anything more basic.    	  これらの基本的特性や法則は それ以上基本的な概念で 説明することはできません  
 Rather, they're taken as primitive,  and you build up the world from there.    	  むしろ それらを根源的なものとして捉え そこから世界を築くのです  
 Now sometimes, the list of fundamentals expands.    	  時に 基本的な概念が増えることがあります  
 In the 19th century, Maxwell figured out  that you can't explain electromagnetic phenomena  in terms of the existing fundamentals —  space, time, mass, Newton's laws —  so he postulated fundamental laws  of electromagnetism and postulated electric charge  as a fundamental element  that those laws govern.    	  19世紀にマクスウェルは 電磁現象をすでに存在している 基本的な概念で 説明できないと思い至りました 空間 時間 質量 ニュートンの法則も然りです そのため マクスウェルは電磁気の 基本的な法則を仮定しました そして その法則が支配する 基本的な要素として 電荷を仮定しました これが意識に関して  
 I think that's the situation we're in  If you can't explain consciousness  in terms of the existing fundamentals —  space, time, mass, charge —  then as a matter of logic, you need to expand the list.    	  私たちの置かれた状況です 空間や時間 質量や電荷などの すでに存在する基本的概念で 意識を説明できないのなら 論理的に言えば 基本的語彙を 増やさねばなりません  
 The natural thing to do is to postulate  consciousness itself as something fundamental,  a fundamental building block of nature.    	  自然な考え方は 意識そのものを基本的な概念― つまり自然を構成する 基本的な要素として仮定するものです  
 This doesn't mean you suddenly can't do science with it.    	  突然 科学的思考が できなくなるわけではありません  
 This opens up the way for you to do science with it.    	  むしろ意識に関して 科学的に 考える道を切り開いてくれるのです  
 What we then need is to study  the fundamental laws governing consciousness,  the laws that connect consciousness  to other fundamentals: space, time, mass,  physical processes.    	  そうなると 意識を支配する 基本的な法則を学ぶ必要があります 意識を他の基本的な概念― 空間や時間 質量や物理的現象などと 結びつけるものです  
 Physicists sometimes say  that we want fundamental laws so simple  that we could write them on the front of a t-shirt.    	  時折 物理学者は 私たちがTシャツの前面に書けるくらい 単純な基本的法則を求めていると言います  
 Well I think something like that is the situation  we're in with consciousness.    	  それは意識に関する状況に 似ていると思います  
 We want to find fundamental laws so simple  we could write them on the front of a t-shirt.    	  私たちもTシャツの前面に書けるくらい 単純で基本的な法則を求めているのです  
 We don't know what those laws are yet,  but that's what we're after.    	  どんな法則かは まだわかりませんが そういうものを求めているのです  
 The second crazy idea  is that consciousness might be universal.    	  ２番目のクレージーな発想は 意識は普遍的なものかもしれないとするものです  
 Every system might have some degree  of consciousness.    	  万物には 程度の差こそあれ 意識が存在します  
 This view is sometimes called panpsychism:  pan for all, psych for mind,  every system is conscious,  not just humans, dogs, mice, flies,  but even Rob Knight's microbes,  elementary particles.    	  これは汎心論とも呼ばれています 「汎」はあまねくという意味で 「心」は精神を意味しており 万物には意識があるとするものです 人間だけでなく 犬やネズミやハエ― ロブ・ナイトの微生物や 素粒子にもあるのです  
 Even a photon has some degree of consciousness.    	  光子にさえ ある種の意識があります  
 The idea is not that photons are intelligent  or thinking.    	  光子に知性があり 思考できるということでは ありません  
 It's not that a photon  is wracked with angst  because it's thinking, "Aww, I'm always buzzing around near the speed of light.    	  光子が「ああ いつも高速で 移動してばかりで ゆっくり動いてバラの香りを 楽しむこともできない」と  
 I never get to slow down and smell the roses."    	  思い悩んでいるということではないのです  
 No, not like that.    	  そんなことはありません  
 But the thought is maybe photons might have  some element of raw, subjective feeling,  some primitive precursor to consciousness.    	  光子にも何らかの 未熟な主観的感情があり 意識の先駆けのようなものを 持っているかもしれないということです  
 This may sound a bit kooky to you.    	  ちょっと変に思われるかもしれません  
 I mean, why would anyone think such a crazy thing?    	  こんなクレージーなことを どうして考えるのでしょうか？  
 Some motivation comes from the first crazy idea,  that consciousness is fundamental.    	  その動機の一部は 意識は基本的な概念であるという １つ目のクレージーな考えから生じています  
 If it's fundamental, like space and time and mass,  it's natural to suppose that it might be universal too,  the way they are.    	  意識が 空間や時間や質量のように 基本的なものであるなら 意識が普遍的であり そういうものなのだと 考えるのは自然なことです  
 It's also worth noting that although the idea  seems counterintuitive to us,  it's much less counterintuitive to people  from different cultures,  where the human mind is seen as much more continuous with nature.    	  この発想が私たちにとって 直観的でないとしても 人間の精神が より深く 自然と結びついている 文化圏の人々にとっては さほど直観に反することではないというのも 言及するに値するでしょう  
 A deeper motivation comes from the idea that  perhaps the most simple and powerful way  to find fundamental laws connecting consciousness  is to link consciousness to information.    	  さらに深い動機は意識を 物理現象と結びつける 基本的法則を見出すための 最も単純かつ強力な方法は 意識と情報を結びつける という発想に起因しています  
 Wherever there's information processing,  there's consciousness.    	  情報処理が行われるところにはどこでも 意識があるのです  
 Complex information processing, like in a human,  complex consciousness.    	  人間が行うような複雑な情報処理には 複雑な意識が伴います  
 Simple information processing,  simple consciousness.    	  単純な情報処理には 単純な意識があります  
 A really exciting thing is in recent years  a neuroscientist, Giulio Tononi,  has taken this kind of theory  and developed it rigorously  with a mathematical theory.    	  非常に期待が持てることには 近年 神経科学者のジュリオ・トノーニが こうした理論を 数学の理論を用いて 大きく発展させました  
 He has a mathematical measure  of information integration  which he calls phi,  measuring the amount of information  And he supposes that phi goes along  with consciousness.    	  トノーニには彼がファイと呼ぶ 情報を統合する 数学的な方法論がありました これはシステム内で統合された 情報量を計るものです トノーニはファイが 意識を伴うと考えました  
 So in a human brain,  incredibly large amount of information integration,  high degree of phi,  a whole lot of consciousness.    	  それゆえ 人間の脳内では 膨大な情報統合が行われるため 高度なファイがあることになり かなりの意識が存在します  
 In a mouse, medium degree of information integration,  still pretty significant,  pretty serious amount of consciousness.    	  マウスにおいては中程度とはいえ かなりの情報統合が 行われるので 相当な程度の意識があるといえます  
 But as you go down to worms,  microbes, particles,  the amount of phi falls off.    	  しかし 虫や 微生物や粒子レベルになると ファイの量は低下します  
 The amount of information integration falls off,  but it's still non-zero.    	  情報統合の量が低下しても ゼロにはなりません  
 On Tononi's theory,  there's still going to be a non-zero degree  of consciousness.    	  トノーニの理論によると 意識の程度はまったくのゼロには ならないのだといいます  
 In effect, he's proposing a fundamental law  of consciousness: high phi, high consciousness.    	  事実上 トノーニは意識に関する 基本的法則を 提案しています　つまり 高度なファイには 高度な意識が宿るのです  
 Now, I don't know if this theory is right,  in the science of consciousness,  and it's been used to integrate a whole range  of scientific data,  and it does have a nice property that it is in fact simple enough  you can write it on the front of a t-shirt.    	  私にはこの理論が正しいのかどうか 分かりませんが 意識の科学では 今のところ 有力な説かもしれません あらゆる科学データを統合するのに 用いられており 良い特性を持った説なので 実際にTシャツの前面に書けるくらい単純です  
 Another final motivation is that  panpsychism might help us to integrate consciousness into the physical world.    	  最後の動機は 汎心論が意識を物質世界と統合するのに  
 Physicists and philosophers have often observed  that physics is curiously abstract. It describes the structure of reality  using a bunch of equations,  but it doesn't tell us about the reality  that underlies it.    	  役立つかもしれないということです 物理学者も哲学者も 度々物理が 不思議なほどに 抽象的であることに気づいてきました 物理は多くの方程式を使って 現実の構造を説明しますが その根底にある現実について  
 As Stephen Hawking puts it,  what puts the fire into the equations?    	  説明することはありません スティーヴン・ホーキングが言うように 何がこれらの方程式に 力を与えるのでしょうか？  
 Well, on the panpsychist view,  you can leave the equations of physics as they are,  but you can take them to be describing  the flux of consciousness.    	  汎心論者の見解では 物理の方程式をそのまま 捨て置くことはできますが 意識の流れを説明するために 用いることもできます  
 That's what physics really is ultimately doing,  describing the flux of consciousness.    	  物理の究極の目的は 意識の流れを説明することなのです  
 On this view, it's consciousness  that puts the fire into the equations.    	  この見解において 意識こそが 方程式に力を与えるものです  
 On that view, consciousness doesn't dangle outside the physical world  as some kind of extra.    	  その見解では 意識は物質世界の外へ 何か余分なものとして ぶら下がることはありません  
 It's there right at its heart.    	  それはまさに中心に位置しているのです  
 This view, I think, the panpsychist view,  has the potential to transfigure our relationship  to nature,  and it may have some pretty serious social  and ethical consequences.    	  この汎心論的見解は 私たちと自然との関係性を 変容させてしまう 可能性があります そして非常に重要な社会的・道徳的結果を もたらすかもしれません  
 Some of these may be counterintuitive.    	  これらの中には 直観的でないものもあるでしょう  
 I used to think I shouldn't eat anything  which is conscious, so therefore I should be vegetarian.    	  私はかつて 意識のある物は 何も食べるべきではないと考えており ベジタリアンになるべきだと思っていました  
 Now, if you're a panpsychist and you take that view,  you're going to go very hungry.    	  あなたが汎心論者で そのような見解を持つなら お腹が満たされないことでしょう  
 So I think when you think about it,  this tends to transfigure your views,  whereas what matters for ethical purposes  and moral considerations,  not so much the fact of consciousness,  but the degree and the complexity of consciousness.    	  意識について考えると あなたの物の見方は大きく変わるでしょう しかし倫理的な目的や道徳的な考え方に 重要な事柄は 意識そのものというよりも 意識の程度や複雑さなのです  
 It's also natural to ask about consciousness in other systems, like computers.    	  コンピュータなどの他のシステムにおける  
 What about the artificially intelligent system  in the movie "Her," Samantha?    	  意識について疑問を持つのは当然でしょう 映画『her/世界でひとつの彼女』の サマンサのような人工知能型OSは どうでしょうか？  
 Is she conscious?    	  彼女には意識がありますか？  
 Well, if you take the informational,  panpsychist view,  she certainly has complicated information processing  and integration,  so the answer is very likely yes, she is conscious.    	  仮に情報にもとづく 汎心論的な見方をするなら サマンサは複雑な情報の処理と 統合を行うので 彼女には意識が「ある」という答えが 導き出せそうです  
 If that's right, it raises pretty serious  ethical issues about both the ethics  of developing intelligent computer systems  and the ethics of turning them off.    	  もしそれが正しいのなら 人工知能型OS開発や それらの電源を落とすことについての倫理が 深刻な倫理問題となるでしょう  
 Finally, you might ask about the consciousness  of whole groups,  the planet.    	  最後に 地球全体としての 意識について 問いを抱くかもしれません  
 Does Canada have its own consciousness?    	  カナダには意識があるのでしょうか？  
 Or at a more local level,  does an integrated group  like the audience at a TED conference,  are we right now having a collective TED consciousness,  an inner movie for this collective TED group  which is distinct from the inner movies  of each of our parts?    	  あるいは もっと身近なレベルで TEDカンファレンスの 聴衆のようにまとまった集団はどうでしょう？ 今 私たちはTEDグループとしての 意識を持ち このTEDグループでの 内なる映画を見ているのでしょうか？ それは個々人の内なる映画とは 違うのでしょうか？  
 I don't know the answer to that question,  but I think it's at least one  worth taking seriously.    	  その答えは分かりませんが 少なくとも真剣に捉える 価値のある問いだと思います  
 Okay, so this panpsychist vision,  it is a radical one,  and I don't know that it's correct.    	  さて この汎心論的見解は 極端なものですし 正しいかどうか分かりません  
 I'm actually more confident about  the first crazy idea,  that consciousness is fundamental,  than about the second one,  that it's universal.    	  私は実は意識を基本的な概念だとする １番目のクレージーな発想の方が ２番目に紹介した 意識を普遍的なものとするものより 正しいのではと思っています  
 I mean, the view raises any number of questions,  has any number of challenges,  like how do those little bits  of consciousness add up  to the kind of complex consciousness  If we can answer those questions,  then I think we're going to be well on our way  to a serious theory of consciousness.    	  なぜなら その見解は多くの疑問と 多くの難題を生むからです 例えば いかにほんの小さな 意識が集まって 私たちが理解しこよなく愛する 複雑な意識となるのかなどです これらの質問に答えられたなら 重要な意識に関する理論を 確立できるかもしれません  
 If not, well, this is the hardest problem perhaps  in science and philosophy.    	  上手くいかなくとも これは科学と哲学において 最も難解な問いなのです  
 We can't expect to solve it overnight.    	  一晩で解くことはできません  
 But I do think we're going to figure it out eventually.    	  でも最終的には必ず解明されると思います  
 Understanding consciousness is a real key, I think,  both to understanding the universe  and to understanding ourselves.    	  意識を理解することが 宇宙を理解したり 私たちの自己を理解したりする 真の鍵となるのです  
 It may just take the right crazy idea.    	  それに必要なのは適切な クレージーな発想なのかもしれません  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 I grew up in a very small country town  I had a very normal, low-key kind of upbringing.    	  私が育ったのはビクトリア州の とても小さな田舎町です ごく普通に 地味に育てられました  
 I went to school, I hung out with my friends,  I fought with my younger sisters.    	  学校に通って 友達と遊んで 妹たちと喧嘩しました  
 It was all very normal.    	  まるっきり普通でした  
 And when I was 15, a member of my local community  approached my parents  and wanted to nominate me  for a community achievement award.    	  私が15才の時 地元コミュニティの役員から 両親に連絡がありました コミュニティの功績賞に 私をノミネートしたいと言うのです  
 And my parents said, "Hm, that's really nice,  but there's kind of one glaring problem with that.    	  両親は「うーん ありがたいですけど 一つだけ 大変な間違いがあります  
 She hasn't actually achieved anything."   And they were right, you know.    	  彼女には 何の功績もありませんよ」と  両親の言うとおりだったんですよ  
 I went to school, I got good marks,  I had a very low-key after school job  in my mum's hairdressing salon,  and I spent a lot of time watching  "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" and "Dawson's Creek."    	  私は学校に通い 良い成績もおさめました とても地味なアルバイトもしました 母の美容院でです そして ひたすら観ていたのは 『バフィー 恋する十字架』と 『ドーソンズ・クリーク』です  
 Yeah, I know. What a contradiction.    	  そう ジャンルが正反対です  
 But they were right, you know.    	  でも両親は正しかったんです  
 I wasn't doing anything that was out of the ordinary  at all.    	  並外れたことなんて 何もしていなかった  
 I wasn't doing anything that could be considered an achievement  if you took disability out of the equation.    	  障害を考慮に入れなければ 功績と呼べるようなものは 何も ありませんでした  
 Years later, I was on my second teaching round  in a Melbourne high school,  and I was about 20 minutes into a year 11 legal studies class  when this boy put up his hand and said,  "Hey miss, when are you going to start doing your speech?"    	  何年もが過ぎ 私がメルボルンの高校で 教師２年目だった時のことです ２年生の法学の授業を始めて 20分ほど経ったところで 男子学生が手を挙げて 「先生 スピーチはまだかよ？」と 言いました  
 And I said, "What speech?"    	  私は「スピーチ？」と返しました  
 You know, I'd been talking them  about defamation law for a good 20 minutes.    	  だって長々と20分も 名誉きそん法の講義をしていたんですよ  
 And he said, "You know, like,  your motivational speaking.    	  この生徒は「あれだよ やる気を起こさせるスピーチ  
 You know, when people in wheelchairs come to school,  they usually say, like, inspirational stuff?"    	  車椅子の人達が学校に来ると だいたい感動的な話をするだろ？」  
   "It's usually in the big hall."    	   「いつもなら会場は大講堂だけど」と  
 And that's when it dawned on me:  This kid had only ever experienced disabled people  as objects of inspiration.    	  これが私の最初の気づきでした この子は障害者を感動の対象としか 見たことがないんだ と  
 We are not, to this kid --  and it's not his fault, I mean,  that's true for many of us.    	  この子にとって― もちろん 彼のせいでもなく 多くの人が そんな風に考えています  
 For lots of us, disabled people are not our teachers  or our doctors or our manicurists.    	  大多数の人が 障害者を教師や 医者やネイリストとは 見ないものです  
 We're not real people. We are there to inspire.    	  障害者は人として扱ってもらえません 感動を与えるための存在です  
 And in fact, I am sitting on this stage  looking like I do in this wheelchair,  and you are probably kind of expecting me  to inspire you. Right?   Yeah.    	  事実 私はこの会場に座って― こんな感じで車椅子に乗っていたら 皆さんが私に それとなく期待しているのは 「感動」ですよね？　 そうなんです  
 Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid  I'm going to disappoint you dramatically.    	  ご来場の皆さま 残念ですが 皆さんを非常に がっかりさせてしまいます  
 I am not here to inspire you.    	  私は「感動」させに来たんじゃ ありません  
 I am here to tell you that we have been lied to  about disability.    	  私がここに来たのは 私たちが障害に関して 騙されていたとお伝えするためです  
 Yeah, we've been sold the lie  that disability is a Bad Thing, capital B, capital T.    	  そう 私たちは嘘を教え込まれています 障害は完璧に悪いことで 疑いの余地なしという嘘です  
 It's a bad thing, and to live with a disability  makes you exceptional.    	  障害は悪いこと だから 障害を持って生活するのは 立派な人だということになります  
 It's not a bad thing, and it doesn't  make you exceptional.    	  障害は悪いことではないんです だから 立派ということもありません  
 And in the past few years, we've been able  to propagate this lie even further  via social media.    	  過去数年間で 私たちは この嘘を さらに広めることに成功しました ソーシャルメディアを通じてです  
 You may have seen images like this one:  "The only disability in life is a bad attitude."    	  こんな画像を見たことがあるでしょう 「人生における唯一の障害は ネガティブな姿勢である」  
 Or this one: "Your excuse is invalid." Indeed.    	  または こちら「言い訳は通じません」 確かにね  
 Or this one: "Before you quit, try!"    	  または これ「諦める前にトライしよう！」  
 These are just a couple of examples,  but there are a lot of these images out there.    	  ご紹介したのは ほんの数例ですが このようなイメージが 氾濫しているのです  
 You know, you might have seen the one,  the little girl with no hands  drawing a picture with a pencil held in her mouth.    	  ご覧になったかもしれません 手が無い 小さな女の子が 口にペンをくわえて 絵を描く姿  
 You might have seen a child running  on carbon fiber prosthetic legs.    	  カーボン・ファイバーの 義肢で走る子供  
 And these images,  there are lots of them out there,  they are what we call inspiration porn.    	  こんなイメージが 実に沢山あります 私たちは これを 「感動ポルノ」と名付けました  
   And I use the term porn deliberately,  because they objectify one group of people  for the benefit of another group of people.    	   あえて「ポルノ」と言っているのは ある特定の人たちを モノ扱いして 他の人が得するようになっているからです  
 So in this case, we're objectifying disabled people  for the benefit of nondisabled people.    	  ですから この場合 障害者を 健常者のために利用しているのです  
 The purpose of these images  is to inspire you, to motivate you,  so that we can look at them  and think, "Well, however bad my life is,  it could be worse.    	  これらのイメージの目的は 皆さんを感動させ やる気を起こさせることです ですから 皆さんがこれを見ると 「自分の人生は最悪だけど 下には下がいる  
 I could be that person."    	  彼らよりはマシだ」と  
 But what if you are that person?    	  でも もし皆さんが 「彼ら」だったらどうしますか？  
 been approached by strangers  wanting to tell me that they think I'm brave  or inspirational,  and this was long before my work  had any kind of public profile.    	  知らない人が近寄ってきて 私のことを勇敢だとか 感銘を受けたとか 言ってこられた経験が 数え切れないほどあります しかも まだ有名になる  
 They were just kind of congratulating me  for managing to get up in the morning  and remember my own name.   And it is objectifying.    	  ずっと前の話です あの人達は まるで私が朝起きて 自分の名前を覚えていたら 賞賛するぐらいの勢いです　 モノ扱いですよね  
 These images, those images  objectify disabled people  for the benefit of nondisabled people.    	  ご覧いただいた画像 このようなイメージは 障害者を 健常者のための物として 利用しているのです  
 They are there so that you can look at them  and think that things aren't so bad for you,  to put your worries into perspective.    	  障害者を見て 健常者が 自分は まだまだ恵まれているんだと 自分の不安を客観視できるような 存在なのです  
 And life as a disabled person  is actually somewhat difficult.    	  障害者としての人生とは 事実 厳しいものです  
 We do overcome some things.    	  乗り越えることが必要な部分はあります  
 But the things that we're overcoming  are not the things that you think they are.    	  ただし私たち障害者が乗り越えるのは 皆さんが思っているようなことでは ありません  
 They are not things to do with our bodies.    	  身体に関わるものではないのです  
 I use the term "disabled people" quite deliberately,  because I subscribe to what's called the social model of disability,  which tells us that we are more disabled by the society that we live in  than by our bodies and our diagnoses.    	  私はあえて「障害者」 という言葉を使います なぜなら私は 障害の社会モデルを支持しているからです 私たちが住む社会からもたらされる 障害は 身体や病状よりもひどいという 考え方です  
 So I have lived in this body a long time.    	  私は自分の身体と ずっと付き合ってきました  
 I'm quite fond of it.    	  かなり気に入っています  
 It does the things that I need it to do,  and I've learned to use it to the best of its capacity  just as you have,  and that's the thing about those kids in those pictures as well.    	  私が必要なことを やってくれるんです 自分の身体の可能性を最大限 発揮しています 皆さんと同じです あの画像の子供達も同じです  
 They're not doing anything out of the ordinary.    	  特別なことなんて 何もしていません  
 They are just using their bodies  to the best of their capacity.    	  あの子達は 自分たちの身体能力を 最大限に引き出しているだけです  
 So is it really fair to objectify them  in the way that we do,  to share those images?    	  では私たちがやっているように 彼らをモノ扱いして 画像をシェアするのは 本当に正しいことなのでしょうか？  
 People, when they say, "You're an inspiration,"  they mean it as a compliment.    	  周りの人達が 「あなたは感動的だ」と言う時 もちろん賞賛しているのでしょう  
 And I know why it happens.    	  そんなことが起きるのも  
 It's because of the lie, it's because we've been sold  this lie that disability makes you exceptional.    	  嘘のせいです 私たちは障害を持つことで 特別な存在になると 思い込まされています  
 And it honestly doesn't.    	  本当に違うんです  
 And I know what you're thinking.    	  こう お考えでしょう  
 You know, I'm up here bagging out inspiration,  and you're thinking, "Jeez, Stella,  aren't you inspired sometimes by some things?"    	  私がここで「感動」に やたら反論しているので きっと皆さんは 「おいおいステラ あなただって何かに 感動したことあるでしょう？」と  
 And the thing is, I am.    	  もちろんあります  
 I learn from other disabled people all the time.    	  他の障害者の方々からは いつも学んでいます  
 I'm learning not that I am luckier than them, though.    	  でも彼らより恵まれているとか そんなことではありません  
 I am learning that it's a genius idea  to use a pair of barbecue tongs  to pick up things that you dropped.   I'm learning that nifty trick where you can charge  your mobile phone battery from your chair battery.    	  私が学んでいるのは 天才的なアイデアです 落とした物を拾うのに トングを使うとかね　 他には車椅子のバッテリーで 携帯の充電をする 粋なアイデア  
 Genius.    	  天才でしょ  
 We are learning from each others' strength and endurance,  not against our bodies and our diagnoses,  but against a world that exceptionalizes  and objectifies us.    	  私たちはお互いの強みや 忍耐力から学びます 闘う相手は 自分たちの身体や病名ではなく 私たちを特別視し 物として扱う 世界です  
 I really think that this lie that we've been sold  about disability is the greatest injustice.    	  私が痛感しているのは 障害についての嘘は 許し難い不公平だということです  
 It makes life hard for us.    	  私たちの生活を厄介にしています  
 And that quote, "The only disability in life  is a bad attitude,"  the reason that that's bullshit  is because it's just not true,  because of the social model of disability.    	  「人生における唯一の障害は ネガティブな姿勢である」が くだらないのは 真実ではないからです 障害の社会モデルそのものだからです  
 No amount of smiling at a flight of stairs  has ever made it turn into a ramp.    	  階段の昇降に苦労している時に どんなに微笑んでも 階段がスロープに変身したりしません  
 Never.    Smiling at a television screen  isn't going to make closed captions appear  for people who are deaf.    	  絶対に　（拍手） テレビ画面に微笑んでも 耳が不自由な方のために 字幕が現れたりしません  
 No amount of standing in the middle of a bookshop  and radiating a positive attitude  is going to turn all those books into braille.    	  本屋の中で どんなに感じ良く 立っていたところで すべての本が 点字に変わったりしません  
 It's just not going to happen.    	  そんなの ありえませんよね  
 I really want to live in a world  where disability is not the exception, but the norm.    	  私が住みたいのは 障害が特別視されるのではなく 普通だと思われる世界です  
 I want to live in a world where a 15-year-old girl  sitting in her bedroom  watching "Buffy the Vampire Slayer"  isn't referred to as achieving anything  because she's doing it sitting down.    	  私が住みたい世界は 15才の女の子が 自分の部屋に座って 『バフィー 恋する十字架』を 観ることが偉業なんかじゃない世界 ただ座って観ているだけなのですから  
 I want to live in a world  where we don't have such low expectations  of disabled people  that we are congratulated for getting out of bed  and remembering our own names in the morning.    	  私が住みたい世界は 障害者の人達に そんな低い期待を 持たない世界 朝ベッドから起きて 自分の名前を覚えている そんなことで賞賛されない世界です  
 I want to live in a world where we value genuine achievement  for disabled people,  and I want to live in a world  where a kid in year 11 in a Melbourne high school  that his new teacher is a wheelchair user.    	  私が住みたい世界は 我々障害者が 真の成果で評価される世界 私が住みたい世界は メルボルンの高校２年生が 新しく来た教師が 車椅子に乗っていても  
 Disability doesn't make you exceptional,  but questioning what you think you know about it does.    	  微塵も動じない世界です 人を特別にするのは障害ではなく 障害に関する自分の知識に 疑いを持つことです  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 What do augmented reality  and professional football  have to do with empathy?    	  拡張現実と プロフットボールが 共感と何の関係があるのでしょうか？  
 And what is the air speed velocity  of an unladen swallow?    	  「荷を持たないツバメの飛行速度は？」 「荷を持たないツバメの飛行速度は？」  
 Now unfortunately, I'm only going to answer  one of those questions today,  so please, try and contain your disappointment.    	  残念ですが 今日は私はこれらの疑問のうち １つだけ答えます どうかあまり ガッカリしないようにして下さい  
 When most people think about augmented reality,  they think about "Minority Report" and Tom Cruise  waving his hands in the air,  but augmented reality is not science fiction.    	  大抵の人が拡張現実について考える時 「マイノリティ・リポート」と 手を振るトム・クルーズについて考えますが 拡張現実は サイエンスフィクションではありません  
 Augmented reality is something that will happen  in our lifetime, and it will happen  because we have the tools to make it happen,  and people need to be aware of that,  because augmented reality will change our lives  just as much as the Internet and the cell phone.    	  拡張現実は我々の生涯で起こる何かで そしてそれは 実現可能な道具を 持っている故に起こるのだということを 人々は気づく必要があります 何故なら 拡張現実は インターネットや携帯電話と同じくらい 我々の人生を変え得るからです  
 Now how do we get to augmented reality?    	  さて 拡張現実にはどう辿り着けるでしょう？  
 Step one is the step I'm wearing right now,  Google Glass.    	  第一のステップは 今 私がかけているもの グーグルグラスです  
 I'm sure many of you are familiar with Google Glass.    	  多くの皆さんがお馴染みかと思います  
 What you may not be familiar with  is that Google Glass is a device  that will allow you to see what I see.    	  恐らく 余りご存知でないのは グーグルグラスは私が見ているものを 皆さんにも見せてくれる デバイスであるということでしょう  
 It will allow you to experience what it is like  to be a professional athlete on the field.    	  それを使って　フィールド上の プロのアスリートのような体験が出来るのです  
 Right now, the only way you can be on the field  is for me to try and describe it to you.    	  現時点で 皆さんがフィールドに立てる唯一の方法は 私に描写させてみることだけです  
 I have to use words.    	  言葉のみを用いてです  
 I have to create a framework that you then fill in  with your imagination.    	  皆さんの想像力を満たす 構成を組み立てなければなりません  
 With Google Glass, we can put that  underneath a helmet,  to be running down the field at 100 miles an hour,  your blood pounding in your ears.    	  グーグルグラスをヘルメットの 下に装着することで 時速160キロでフィールドを走り 耳の奥で自分の鼓動が脈打つのが  
 You can get a sense of what it's like  to have a 250-pound man  sprinting at you  trying to decapitate you  with every ounce of his being.    	  どういう感覚か 味わえるのです 110キロの男が 全力疾走であなたを目がけ 全体重の全てで 打ち負かそうとしている  
 And I've been on the receiving end of that,  and it doesn't feel very good.    	  それがどういう感覚か 味わえるのです ずっと やられる側でしたが  
 Now, I have some footage to show you of what it's like  to wear Google Glass underneath the helmet  to give you a taste of that.    	  心地よいものではありません さて ヘルメットの下に グーグルグラスを装着するのは どのようなものなのか 味わって頂くために  
 Unfortunately, it's not NFL practice footage  because the NFL thinks emergent technology  is what happens when a submarine surfaces,  but —  — we do what we can.    	  お見せする映像を持ってきました 残念ながら 映像は実際のNFLではありません NFL は「先端」技術とやらは 例えば潜水艦の「Surface」で 発揮されると思っていますから でも －－やれることをしましょう  
 So let's pull up some video.    	  では ビデオを再生します  
  Chris Kluwe: Go.    	   クリスクルー：行くぞ  
 Ugh, getting tackled sucks.    	  あぁ タックルされるのはうんざり  
 Hold on, let's get a little closer.    	  まてよ もう少し近づいて  
 All right, ready?    	  よし いいか？  
 Go!    	  行くぞ！  
 Chris Kluwe: So as you can see,  small taste of what it's like to get tackled  on the football field  from the perspective of the tacklee.    	  クリス：ご覧頂いてるように フットボールのフィールドで タックルを受ける感触の一端を 受け手の見方で味わっていただきました  
 Now, you may have noticed there are  the rest of the team.    	  さて お気づきだと思いますが チームの残りのメンバーが  
 We have some video of that  courtesy of the University of Washington.    	  何人か足りません ワシントン大学のご厚意で いくつかのビデオを用意できました  
  Quarterback: Hey, Mice 54! Mice 54!    	   クォーターバック：マイスの54番！  
 Blue 8! Blue 8! Go!    	  ブルーの8番！行け！行け！  
 Oh!    	  あっ！  
 CK: So again, this takes you a little bit closer  to what it's like to be on that field,  but this is nowhere what it's like  to be on the NFL.    	  クリス：再び この映像は皆さんを ほんの少し フィールドの上にいる感覚にしてくれます しかし これはNFLに居るのとは 全く違うのです  
 Fans want that experience.    	  ファンはその体感が欲しいのです  
 Fans want to be on that field.    	  NFLのフィールドに立ちたいのです  
 They want to be their favorite players,  and they've already talked to me on YouTube,  they've talked to me on Twitter, saying,  "Hey, can you get this on a quarterback?    	  ファンはお気に入りの選手になりたいのです YouTubeやTwitterで 既に聞かされていますが 彼らはこう言っています 「ねぇ クォーターバックのものはないの？  
 Can you get this on a running back?    	  ランニングバックのは？  
 We want that experience."    	  それを体感したいんだ」  
 Well, once we have that experience with GoPro  and Google Glass,  how do we make it more immersive?    	  かつて GoProとグーグルグラスで その体験をしたことがありました どうやって真に迫るものにできるか  
 How do we take that next step?    	  どうやって次の次元に進めるのか？  
 Well, we take that step  by going to something called the Oculus Rift,  which I'm sure many of you are also familiar with.    	  さて お馴染みの方もいるであろう 「Oculus Rift」と呼ばれるもので 我々は次の次元に進みました  
 The Oculus Rift has been described as one of  the most realistic virtual reality devices ever created,  and that is not empty hype.    	  「Oculus Rift」は 過去もっとも現実に迫る 仮想現実デバイスの1つで それは決して言い過ぎではなく  
 I'm going to show you why that is not empty hype  with this video.    	  その理由を このビデオでお見せします  
  Man: Oh! Oh!    	  男性：ああっ！  
 No! No! No! I don't want to play anymore! No!    	  ダメダメダメ！もうやりたくないよ！ヤダ！  
 Oh my God! Aaaah!    	  神様～！ああああー！  
 CK: So that is the experience of a man  in fear of his life.    	  クリス：これはある男性が 生命の危機を感じる  
 of an Adrian Peterson bursting through the line,  shedding a tackler with a stiff-arm  before sprinting in for a touchdown?    	  ジェットコースターを体験したのものです 我々がエイドリアン・ピーターソンが ラインを突っ走り タッチダウンへ疾走する前に タックルする選手を　腕を張って押しのける  
 What do you think that fan's experience  is going to be when he's Messi  sprinting down the pitch  putting the ball in the back of the net,  or Federer serving in Wimbledon?    	  映像を撮影するならば ファンの経験として それはどのようなものになると思いますか？ もし彼がメッシで ピッチを全力疾走し 華麗にゴールを決める もしくはウィンブルドンで サーブをするフェデラーなら  
 What do you think his experience is going to be  when he is going down the side of a mountain  at over 70 miles an hour  as an Olympic downhill skier?    	  どのような ファンの経験となると思いますか？ もしオリンピックの ダウンヒルスキー選手として 時速112キロ強のスピードで 山を滑り降りるとしたら それはどのような経験となると思いますか？  
 I think adult diaper sales may surge.    	  私は大人用おむつが急に売れるだろうと思います  
   But this is not yet augmented reality.    	   しかしこれはまだ拡張現実ではないのです  
 This is only virtual reality, V.R.    	  これは仮想現実に過ぎません  
 How do we get to augmented reality, A.R.?    	  どうしたら拡張現実に 辿り着けるでしょうか？  
 We get to augmented reality  when coaches and managers and owners  look at this information streaming in  that people want to see, and they say,  "How do we use this to make our teams better?    	  我々が拡張現実に辿り着く時は コーチとマネージャーとオーナーが 人々が見たい情報を ストリーミング放送で見て こう言う時です 「どうやってこれをチームを改善し  
 How do we use this to win games?"    	  試合に勝つために役立てられるのか？」  
 Because teams always use technology to win games.    	  チームは常に試合に勝つために テクノロジーを利用します  
 They like winning. It makes them money.    	  儲かりますから勝ちたいんです  
 So a brief history of technology in the NFL.    	  では NFLのちょっとしたテクノロジーのお話を  
 In 1965, the Baltimore Colts  put a wristband on their quarterback  to allow him to call plays quicker.    	  1965年にボルチモア・コルツは より早く作戦を伝えるように クォーターバックにリストバンドを着けました  
 They ended up winning a Super Bowl that year.    	  そしてその年のスーパーボールで優勝しました  
 Other teams followed suit.    	  他のチームも先例に従いました  
 More people watched the game because it was more exciting.    	  スピーディーで エキサイティングな試合になり  
 It was faster.    	  より多くの人が試合を観ました  
 In 1994, the NFL put helmet radios  into the helmets of the quarterbacks,  and later the defense.    	  1994年にNFLはクォーターバックの それから後に ディフェンスのヘルメットに 無線機を付けました  
 More people watched games because it was faster.    	  さらに素早くなったので 更にファンは増加しました  
 It was more entertaining.    	  より楽しくなったのです  
 In 2023, imagine you're a player  walking back to the huddle,  and you have your next play displayed  right in front of your face on your clear plastic visor  that you already wear right now.    	  2023年 皆さんは選手です ハドルに戻ってくると 皆さんが既に装着している 目の前の透明のプラスチック製のバイザーに 次の作戦が映し出されるのです  
 No more having to worry about forgetting plays.    	  忘れる心配は もう要りません  
 No more worrying about having to memorize your playbook.    	  フォーメーションを覚える心配はもう要りません  
 You just go out and react.    	  ただ 出場し 応じるだけです 指示の出し忘れが  
 And coaches really want this, because missed assignments lose you games,  and coaches hate losing games.    	  敗戦に繋がるので コーチは本当にこの装置が欲しいのです コーチは敗戦が大嫌いです  
 Losing games gets you fired as a coach.    	  敗戦だとコーチの職を失いますし  
 They don't want that.    	  そうは望んでないのです  
 But augmented reality is not just  an enhanced playbook.    	  しかし拡張現実はフォーメーションを 覚え易くするだけではありません しかし拡張現実はフォーメーションを 覚え易くするだけではありません  
 Augmented reality is also a way to take all that data  and use it in real time  to enhance how you play the game.    	  拡張現実は全てのデータを記録し 瞬時に利用する方法でもあるのです 試合の仕方を改善するために  
 What would that be like?    	  それはどのようなものでしょうか？  
 Well, a very simple setup would be a camera  on each corner of the stadium looking down,  giving you a bird's-eye view  of all the people down there.    	  多分 最もシンプルな装置はカメラでしょう スタジアムの四隅に取り付けられ そこにいるすべての人々を 全景で見下ろすことができます  
 You also have information from helmet sensors  and accelerometers,  technology that's being worked on right now.    	  また ヘルメットセンサーと加速度計の 情報があります 今まさに開発中のテクノロジーです  
 You take all that information, and you stream it to your players.    	  それら全ての情報を ストリーミング配信で選手に見せます  
 The good teams stream it in a way that the players can use.    	  優れたチームは 選手が利用できるように配信し  
 The bad ones have information overload.    	  劣ったチームは情報過多となるでしょう  
 That determines good teams from bad.    	  チームの優劣を決める要素となります  
 And now, your I.T. department  is just as important as your scouting department,  and data-mining is not for nerds anymore.    	  そして現在 IT部門は スカウト部門と同じくらい重要で データーマイニングは オタクだけのものではないのです  
 It's also for jocks. Who knew?    	  運動選手のためでもありますよね?  
 What would that look like on the field?    	  フィールドではどんな風に見えるでしょう？  
 Well, imagine you're the quarterback.    	  皆さんはクォーターバックです  
 You take the snap and you drop back.    	  スナップを受けて少し下がると  
 You're scanning downfield for an open receiver.    	  フリーの選手を探して 敵陣に視線を走らせます  
 All of a sudden, a bright flash  on the left side of your visor lets you know,  blind side linebacker is blitzing in.    	  突然 バイザーの左側の明るい明滅で 背中側のラインバッカーに 入り込まれたことがわかります  
 Normally, you wouldn't be able to see him,  but the augmented reality system lets you know.    	  この動きは普通は見えませんが 拡張現実だからわかるのです  
 You step up into the pocket.    	  追い詰められそうです  
 Another flash alerts you to an open receiver.    	  別の明滅で フリーの選手が見つかり  
 You throw the ball, but you're hit right as you throw.    	  パスを投げますが スロー中にタックルされ  
 The ball comes off track.    	  ボールを見失います  
 You don't know where it's going to land.    	  どこにボールは向かったのか・・・  
 However, on the receiver's visor,  he sees a patch of grass light up,  and he knows to readjust.    	  レシーバーのバイザーでは 芝の一部が明るくなるので 軌道修正して走り  
 He goes, catches the ball,  sprints in, touchdown.    	  ボールをキャッチし 全力疾走し タッチダウンします  
 Crowd goes wild, and the fans are with him  every step of the way,  watching from every perspective.    	  観客は夢中になり ファンはすべての歩みを あらゆる角度から観賞しながら 彼と共にしています  
 Now this is something that will create  massive excitement in the game.    	  これは試合を とてつもなく 面白いものにするものなのです これは試合を とてつもなく 面白いものにするものなのです  
 It will make tons of people watch,  because people want this experience.    	  こんな経験をしたいので 多くの人が試合を観ることになるでしょう  
 Fans want to be on the field.    	  ファンはフィールドに立ちたいのです  
 They want to be their favorite player.    	  彼らはお気に入りの選手になってみたいのです  
 Augmented reality will be a part of sports,  because it's too profitable not to.    	  拡張現実はスポーツの１つとなるでしょう 余りにも儲かりますから  
 But the question I ask you is,  is that's all that we're content to use augmented reality for?    	  でも 皆さんにお聞きしたいのは 拡張現実の活用は これだけのためでしょうか？  
 Are we going to use it solely for our panem,  our circenses, our entertainment as normal?    	  ただ「食べ物」と「娯楽」のような もののためだけに使うのでしょうか？  
 Because I believe that we can use augmented reality  for something more.    	  私は何かもっと 拡張現実を活用できると 信じています  
 I believe we can use augmented reality  as a way to foster more empathy  within the human species itself,  by literally showing someone  what it looks like  to walk a mile in another person's shoes.    	  私は拡張現実を 人類の中で共感を育むことに 活用できると信じてます それは他人の靴で 1.6キロ歩くのがどういうものかを 文字通り見せることによって行うのです  
 We know what this technology is worth  to sports leagues.    	  このテクノロジーがスポーツリーグにとって 価値があるのを知っています このテクノロジーがスポーツリーグにとって 価値があるのを知っています  
 It's worth revenue, to the tune of billions of dollars a year.    	  年間 数十億相当もの利益の価値があります  
 But what is this technology worth  to a teacher in a classroom trying to show a bully  just how harmful his actions are  from the perspective of the victim?    	  しかしこのテクノロジーは 教室でいじめっ子に 彼の振る舞いがいかに酷いものかを 犠牲者の気持ちに立って 教えようとしている先生にとて  
 What is this technology worth to a gay Ugandan or Russian  trying to show the world what it's like  living under persecution?    	  どのような価値があるのでしょうか？ 世界に向けて迫害されながら生きることが どのようなものか公開しようとする  
 What is this technology worth  to a Commander Hadfield or a Neil deGrasse Tyson  trying to inspire a generation of children  to think more about space and science  instead of quarterly reports and Kardashians?    	  どのような価値があるのでしょうか？ このテクノロジーは 儲け話や芸能ゴシップではなく 子供世代に宇宙や科学について より見識を深めてもらうべく 後押しに励む どのような価値があるのでしょうか？  
 Ladies and gentlemen, augmented reality  is coming.    	  紳士淑女の皆様 拡張現実はすぐそこです  
 The questions we ask, the choices we make,  and the challenges we face  are, as always, up to us.    	  我々が訊くこと 選択すること 相まみえる挑戦 どんな時も 我々次第です  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 I recently retired  from the California Highway Patrol  after 23 years of service.    	  私は 最近まで カリフォルニア・ハイウェイ・パトロールに 務めていました カリフォルニア・ハイウェイ・パトロールに 務めていました 在職 23年間の大半で ゴールデン・ゲート・ブリッジを含む  
 The majority of those 23 years  was spent patrolling the southern end  of Marin County,  which includes the Golden Gate Bridge.    	  在職 23年間の大半で ゴールデン・ゲート・ブリッジを含む マリーン郡南部のパトロールを担当しました マリーン郡南部のパトロールを担当しました ゴールデン・ゲート・ブリッジは ベイ・エリアのシンボル的な存在で  
 The bridge is an iconic structure, known worldwide  for its beautiful views of San Francisco,  the Pacific Ocean, and its inspiring architecture.    	  ゴールデン・ゲート・ブリッジは ベイ・エリアのシンボル的な存在で 橋から見渡せるサンフランシスコと 大西洋の眺望や 橋そのものの美しさが 世界的に知られています  
 Unfortunately, it is also a magnet for suicide,  being one of the most utilized sites in the world.    	  残念なことに この橋は自殺の名所でもあり 世界中で最も自殺が多発する 場所の一つです  
 The Golden Gate Bridge opened in 1937.    	  ゴールデン・ゲート・ブリッジは 1937年に開通しました  
 Joseph Strauss, chief engineer in charge of building the bridge,  was quoted as saying,  "The bridge is practically suicide-proof.    	  設計技師のジョゼフ・ストラウスは 当時こう言ったと伝えられています 設計技師のジョゼフ・ストラウスは 当時こう言ったと伝えられています “自殺に関連する問題は生じないだろう""  
 Suicide from the bridge  is neither practical nor probable."    	  “飛び降り自殺は不可能だし 起こりそうにない"" と “飛び降り自殺は不可能だし 起こりそうにない"" と  
 But since its opening,  over 1,600 people have leapt to their death  from that bridge.    	  しかし 開通以後 1,600人以上の人々が 橋からの飛び降りで亡くなっています 1,600人以上の人々が 橋からの飛び降りで亡くなっています  
 Some believe that traveling  between the two towers  will lead you to another dimension --  this bridge has been romanticized as such — that the fall from that  frees you from all your worries and grief,  and the waters below  will cleanse your soul.    	  橋を支える二つのタワー間を 行き来することで 橋を支える二つのタワー間を 行き来することで 異次元の世界に辿り着けると 信じる人もいます 橋から飛び降りることで 全ての心配や悩みから解放され 橋から飛び降りることで 全ての心配や悩みから解放され 下を流れる水が魂を浄化してくれるのだと この橋は美化されてきました 下を流れる水が魂を浄化してくれるのだと この橋は美化されてきました 下を流れる水が魂を浄化してくれるのだと この橋は美化されてきました  
 But let me tell you what actually occurs  when the bridge is used  as a means of suicide.    	  しかし 橋から飛び降りた際に 実際に起きることをお伝えしましょう しかし 橋から飛び降りた際に 実際に起きることをお伝えしましょう しかし 橋から飛び降りた際に 実際に起きることをお伝えしましょう  
 After a free fall of four to five seconds,  the body strikes the water  at about 75 miles an hour.    	  4.5秒ほど自由落下した後 時速120kmで身体が水面に激突します 時速120kmで身体が水面に激突します  
 That impact shatters bones,  some of which then puncture vital organs.    	  衝撃で身体中の骨が粉々になり 破片の一部が主要な臓器に突き刺さります 衝撃で身体中の骨が粉々になり 破片の一部が主要な臓器に突き刺さります  
 Most die on impact.    	  ほとんどの場合 即死しますが 衝突を生き延びたとしても  
 Those that don't  generally flail in the water helplessly,  and then drown.    	  ほとんどの場合 即死しますが 衝突を生き延びたとしても たいていは 水中でどうしようもないまま 衰弱し溺れ死にます たいていは 水中でどうしようもないまま 衰弱し溺れ死にます  
 I don't think that those who contemplate  this method of suicide  realize how grisly a death that they will face.    	  私が思うに 飛び降り自殺の志願者は 自身の最期がどれだけ恐ろしいものに なるのか理解していないのです 自身の最期がどれだけ恐ろしいものに なるのか理解していないのです  
 This is the cord.    	  これが橋の外側の桁です  
 Except for around the two towers,  there is 32 inches of steel  paralleling the bridge.    	  二つのタワー付近を除いて 80cm幅の梁が橋と並行に走っています 二つのタワー付近を除いて 80cm幅の梁が橋と並行に走っています 二つのタワー付近を除いて 80cm幅の梁が橋と並行に走っています  
 This is where most folks stand  before taking their lives.    	  ほとんどの自殺者は 自殺直前にこの上に立ちます ほとんどの自殺者は 自殺直前にこの上に立ちます  
 I can tell you from experience  that once the person is on that cord,  and at their darkest time,  it is very difficult to bring them back.    	  私の経験から言うと 真っ暗闇の中で いったん自殺志願者が この上に立つと 自殺を食い止めるのは非常に難しいです 自殺を食い止めるのは非常に難しいです  
 I took this photo last year  as this young woman spoke to an officer  contemplating her life.    	  この写真は 去年 私が撮影したものですが 自殺志願者の若い女性が警察官相手に 自らの人生を振り返っているところです 自殺志願者の若い女性が警察官相手に 自らの人生を振り返っているところです  
 I want to tell you very happily  that we were successful that day  in getting her back over the rail.    	  自殺志願者の若い女性が警察官相手に 自らの人生を振り返っているところです 幸運なことに 我々は なんとか彼女を 引き止める事に成功しました 幸運なことに 我々は なんとか彼女を 引き止める事に成功しました  
 When I first began working on the bridge,  we had no formal training.    	  私がゴールデン・ゲート・ブリッジでの 仕事を始めた時には 体系だった研修が存在しませんでした  
 You struggled to funnel your way through these calls.    	  苦労を重ねながら 自分なりの対処方法を 生み出さざるを得なかったのです  
 This was not only a disservice  to those contemplating suicide,  but to the officers as well.    	  こういった研修の欠如は 自殺志願者のみならず こういった研修の欠如は 自殺志願者のみならず 警察官にとっても不幸な状況でした  
 We've come a long, long way since then.    	  我々はそれ以来 大きな進歩を遂げています  
 Now, veteran officers and psychologists  train new officers.    	  今では 熟練した警察官と精神科医が 新入りの警察官の研修を担当します 今では 熟練した警察官と精神科医が 新入りの警察官の研修を担当します  
 This is Jason Garber.    	  彼の名は ジェイソン・ガーバーです  
 I met Jason on July 22 of last year  when I get received a call  of a possible suicidal subject  sitting on the cord near midspan.    	  昨年の6月22日に私は彼と出会いました 彼が 橋中央部のパイプに座って 自殺を企てているという 連絡を受けたのです 彼が 橋中央部のパイプに座って 自殺を企てているという 連絡を受けたのです 彼が 橋中央部のパイプに座って 自殺を企てているという 連絡を受けたのです  
 I responded, and when I arrived,  I observed Jason  speaking to a Golden Gate Bridge officer.    	  要請に応じ 私が現場に駆けつけた時 ジェイソンは別の警察官に 話しかけていました ジェイソンは別の警察官に 話しかけていました  
 Jason was just 32 years old  and had flown out here from New Jersey.    	  弱冠32歳の彼は 飛行機で遠く ニュー・ジャージーからやってきたのです 弱冠32歳の彼は 飛行機で遠く ニュー・ジャージーからやってきたのです 実を言うと 彼は自殺を図ろうとして 既に２回ここを訪れていました  
 As a matter of fact,  he had flown out here on two other occasions  from New Jersey to attempt suicide on this bridge.    	  実を言うと 彼は自殺を図ろうとして 既に２回ここを訪れていました 実を言うと 彼は自殺を図ろうとして 既に２回ここを訪れていました 実を言うと 彼は自殺を図ろうとして 既に２回ここを訪れていました  
 After about an hour of speaking with Jason,  he asked us if we knew the story of Pandora's box.    	  １時間ほど会話した後 彼は パンドラの箱の 話を知っているかと 我々に尋ねました １時間ほど会話した後 彼は パンドラの箱の 話を知っているかと 我々に尋ねました  
 Recalling your Greek mythology,  Zeus created Pandora,  and sent her down to Earth with a box,  and told her, "Never, ever open that box."    	  ギリシャ神話によると ゼウスはパンドラという名の女性を創り 彼女を一つの箱とともに 地球に送り込みます ゼウスはパンドラという名の女性を創り 彼女を一つの箱とともに 地球に送り込みます そして “決して その箱を開けてはならない"" と命令します  
 Well one day, curiosity got the better of Pandora,  and she did open the box.    	  しかしある日 パンドラは好奇心に負けて その箱を開けてしまいます しかしある日 パンドラは好奇心に負けて その箱を開けてしまいます  
 Out flew plagues, sorrows,  and all sorts of evils against man.    	  箱からは 厄災や悲哀など ありとあらゆる悪が飛び出しますが 箱からは 厄災や悲哀など ありとあらゆる悪が飛び出しますが  
 The only good thing in the box was hope.    	  希望だけが唯一の救いとして残されました  
 Jason then asked us,  "What happens when you open the box  and hope isn't there?"    	  ジェイソンは 続けてこう問いました “パンドラの箱を開けて 希望すら 残されていなかったらどうなるだろう?"" “パンドラの箱を開けて 希望すら 残されていなかったらどうなるだろう?""  
 He paused a few moments,  leaned to his right,  and was gone.    	  彼は 何度かためらいつつも 身体を右側に傾けて 飛び降りました  
 This kind, intelligent young man from New Jersey  had just committed suicide.    	  この心優しく知的な ニュー・ジャージーの若者が 今まさに自らを殺めてしまったのです  
 I spoke with Jason's parents that evening,  and I suppose that, when I was speaking with them,  that I didn't sound as if I was doing very well,  because that very next day,  their family rabbi called to check on me.    	  その日の夕方 私はジェイソンの両親と会話をしました 彼の両親には 私がひどく 落ち込んでいるように聞こえたようで 彼の両親には 私がひどく 落ち込んでいるように聞こえたようで その翌日に 彼の家族が慕うユダヤ教のラビが 気にかけて私に電話してきました  
 Jason's parents had asked him to do so.    	  ジェイソンの両親がそう頼んだのです  
 The collateral damage of suicide  affects so many people.    	  自殺は 多くの人々に二次的な 影響を及ぼします 自殺は 多くの人々に二次的な 影響を及ぼします  
 I pose these questions to you:  What would you do if your family member,  friend or loved one was suicidal?    	  ここで聴衆の皆さんに質問です もしあなたの家族や友人 最愛の人が 自殺を考えていたらどうしますか? もしあなたの家族や友人 最愛の人が 自殺を考えていたらどうしますか?  
 What would you say?    	  なんと声をかけますか?  
 Would you know what to say?    	  なんと声をかけるべきか 知っていますか?  
 In my experience, it's not just the talking that you do,  but the listening.    	  私の経験によると 声をかけるだけでなく 耳を傾けることが重要です 私の経験によると 声をかけるだけでなく 耳を傾けることが重要です  
 Listen to understand.    	  理解しようと 耳を傾けるのです  
 Don't argue, blame,  or tell the person you know how they feel,  because you probably don't.    	  言い返したり 非難してはいけません また“あなたの気持ちがわかる"" と言ってもいけません 恐らくあなたはその人の気持ちを 理解していないからです  
 By just being there,  you may just be the turning point that they need.    	  単にそこにいるというだけで あなたの存在自体が 彼らの人生に必要な 転機になりえるのかもしれません  
 If you think someone is suicidal,  don't be afraid to confront them and ask the question.    	  もし誰かが自殺を企てていると思ったなら 恐れずに向き合って 尋ねかけるべきです  
 One way of asking them the question is like this:  "Others in similar circumstances  have thought about ending their life;  have you had these thoughts?"    	  一つの尋ね方は次のようなものです “同様の状況で自ら命を断とうとした人が いるけれど"" “同様の状況で自ら命を断とうとした人が いるけれど"" “あなたはどうなの？""  
 Confronting the person head-on  may just save their life and be the turning point for them.    	  真正面から本人に向き合うことが 彼らの命を救い人生の 転機になるかもしれないのです  
 Some other signs to look for:  hopelessness, believing that things are terrible  and never going to get better;  helplessness, believing that there is nothing  that you can do about it;  recent social withdrawal;  and a loss of interest in life.    	  他に見られる兆候は 状況がどうにもならなくて 良くなる見込みも決して無いという絶望 状況がどうにもならなくて 良くなる見込みも決して無いという絶望 自分の力ではどうにもならないという絶望 自分の力ではどうにもならないという絶望 他人との付き合いを避けるようになること そして 人生に対する興味を失うこと  
 I came up with this talk just a couple of days ago,  and I received an email from a lady  that I'd like to read you her letter.    	  私は このトークの内容を ほんの数日前に思いつきましたが ある女性から受け取ったメールを 皆さんに読み聞かせたいと思います ある女性から受け取ったメールを 皆さんに読み聞かせたいと思います  
 She lost her son on January 19 of this year,  and she wrote this me this email  just a couple of days ago,  and it's with her permission and blessing  that I read this to you.    	  彼女は今年の1月19日に息子を失いました このメールは彼女がほんの数日前に 私に送ってきたものです このメールは彼女がほんの数日前に 私に送ってきたものです 彼女の承諾のもとで このメールを 皆さんに読み聞かせたいと思います 彼女の承諾のもとで このメールを 皆さんに読み聞かせたいと思います  
 "Hi, Kevin. I imagine you're at the TED Conference.    	  “ケヴィンさんへ　今あなたがTED コンファレンスに参加していると想像します  
 That must be quite the experience to be there.    	  それは素晴らしい経験に違いないでしょう  
 I'm thinking I should go walk the bridge this weekend.    	  私は今週末にゴールデン・ゲート・ブリッジを 歩いて渡ろうと考えています  
 Just wanted to drop you a note.    	  一言 あなたに連絡しておきたいと思いました  
 Hope you get the word out to many people  and they go home talking about it  to their friends who tell their friends, etc.    	  あなたが たくさんの人にメッセージを届け それが友人から友人へと 更に多くの人々に 伝わって行くことを期待しています それが友人から友人へと 更に多くの人々に 伝わって行くことを期待しています  
 I'm still pretty numb,  but noticing more moments of really realizing  Mike isn't coming home.    	  未だに呆然としています けれど 息子のマイクは もう家に戻ってこないのだと はっと気づく瞬間が増えています 1月19日 マイクは 49ersの試合を父親と見るために  
 Mike was driving from Petaluma to San Francisco  to watch the 49ers game with his father on January 19.    	  ペタルーマからサンフランシスコへ向けて ドライブしていましたが ペタルーマからサンフランシスコへ向けて ドライブしていましたが  
 He never made it there.    	  そこに辿り着くことは決してありませんでした  
 I called Petaluma police  and reported him missing that evening.    	  その日の午後 私はペタルーマ警察署に 電話し 彼が行方不明だと連絡しました その日の午後 私はペタルーマ警察署に 電話し 彼が行方不明だと連絡しました  
 The next morning,  two officers came to my home  and reported that Mike's car was down at the bridge.    	  翌朝 ２人の警察官が我が家を訪れ 翌朝 ２人の警察官が我が家を訪れ マイクの車が 橋のたもとに 放置されていると報告しました  
 A witness had observed him jumping off the bridge  at 1:58 p.m. the previous day.    	  前日の午後1:58に彼が橋から 飛び降りるのが目撃されていました 前日の午後1:58に彼が橋から 飛び降りるのが目撃されていました  
 Thanks so much for standing up for those  who may be only temporarily too weak  to stand for themselves.    	  一時とはいえ 自分では立てないほどに 弱ってしまった人々のために 一時とはいえ 自分では立てないほどに 弱ってしまった人々のために 声を上げていただき 本当に感謝しています 声を上げていただき 本当に感謝しています  
 Who hasn't been low before  without suffering from a true mental illness?    	  精神障害を患わなくても 誰しも気分が 落ち込む経験はあるはずです 精神障害を患わなくても 誰しも気分が 落ち込む経験はあるはずです  
 It shouldn't be so easy to end it.    	  気持ちの落ち込みを止めることは 容易ではありません  
 My prayers are with you for your fight.    	  あなたの取り組みに 神のご加護を祈ります  
 The GGB, Golden Gate Bridge,  is supposed to be a passage across  our beautiful bay,  not a graveyard.    	  ゴールデン・ゲート・ブリッジは 美しいサンフランシスコ湾を越える 通り道であって 美しいサンフランシスコ湾を越える 通り道であって 墓場ではありません  
 Good luck this week. Vicky."    	  それでは良い一週間を ヴィッキーより”  
 I can't imagine the courage it takes for her  to go down to that bridge and walk the path  that her son took that day,  and also the courage just to carry on.    	  その橋に行き あの日の 息子の足取りを辿ることや その橋に行き あの日の 息子の足取りを辿ることや 今後の人生を生き続けようとする その勇気の大きさは 私の想像の及ぶところではありません  
 I'd like to introduce you to a man  I refer to as hope and courage.    	  私が“希望と勇気""と呼ぶ男性を 皆さんに紹介したいと思います 私が“希望と勇気""と呼ぶ男性を 皆さんに紹介したいと思います  
 On March 11 of 2005,  I responded to a radio call of a possible  suicidal subject on the bridge sidewalk near the north tower.    	  2005年の3月11日 北側のタワー付近の歩道に 自殺志願者と見られる人物がいるとの 無線連絡を私は受けました 自殺志願者と見られる人物がいるとの 無線連絡を私は受けました  
 I rode my motorcycle down the sidewalk  and observed this man, Kevin Berthia,  standing on the sidewalk.    	  私はバイクで現場に趣き この男性 ケヴィン・ベルシアが 歩道に立っているのを見つけました この男性 ケヴィン・ベルシアが 歩道に立っているのを見つけました  
 When he saw me, he immediately traversed  that pedestrian rail,  and stood on that small pipe  which goes around the tower.    	  私を見るやいなや 彼はすぐに柵を乗り越えて タワーの周りに設置してある 細いパイプ上に立ちました タワーの周りに設置してある 細いパイプ上に立ちました  
 For the next hour and a half,  I listened as Kevin spoke about  his depression and hopelessness.    	  それから一時間半の間 ケヴィンが 鬱と絶望について語るのを 私は聞き続けました ケヴィンが 鬱と絶望について語るのを 私は聞き続けました  
 Kevin decided on his own that day  to come back over that rail  and give life another chance.    	  その日 ケヴィンは ふたたび柵を乗り越え 新しく人生を やり直すという決断を自分自身で下しました ふたたび柵を乗り越え 新しく人生を やり直すという決断を自分自身で下しました  
 When Kevin came back over,  I congratulated him.    	  そして 戻ってきた彼を 私はこう祝福しました そして 戻ってきた彼を 私はこう祝福しました  
 "This is a new beginning, a new life."    	  “これは新しい人生の門出なのだ""と  
 But I asked him, "What was it  that made you come back  and give hope and life another chance?"    	  けれど 私はこうも尋ねました “人生を希望と共にやり直したいと 考え直すきっかけは何だったのか""と “人生を希望と共にやり直したいと 考え直すきっかけは何だったのか""と  
 And you know what he told me?    	  彼が何と答えたか皆さんはわかりますか?  
 He said, "You listened.    	  “自分の言うことに あなたが耳を傾けてくれたからだ""  
 You let me speak, and you just listened."    	  “自分の言うことに あなたが耳を傾けてくれたからだ""  
 Shortly after this incident,  I received a letter from Kevin's mother,  and I have that letter with me,  and I'd like to read it to you.    	  その一件のすぐ後 私は ケヴィンの母親から 手紙を受け取りました その一件のすぐ後 私は ケヴィンの母親から 手紙を受け取りました 今ここにある手紙を 皆さんに読み聞かせたいと思います 今ここにある手紙を 皆さんに読み聞かせたいと思います  
 "Dear Mr. Briggs,  Nothing will erase the events of March 11,  but you are one of the reasons Kevin is still with us.    	  “親愛なる ブリグスさんへ 3月11日に起きた出来事を忘れることは 決して出来ませんが あなたの存在こそ ケヴィンが今も私たちと 共に生きている理由の一つです  
 I truly believe Kevin was crying out for help.    	  ケヴィンは救いを求めて叫んでいたのだと 私は心から思います  
 He has been diagnosed with a mental illness  for which he has been properly medicated.    	  彼は精神障害の診断を受けており 適切な治療を受けていました  
 I adopted Kevin when he was only six months old,  completely unaware of any hereditary traits,  but, thank God, now we know.    	  私はケヴィンを生後間もない６か月の時に 養子にとりましたが その際は 彼の遺伝的な特徴に 全く気づきませんでした けれど 神様のおかげで 今やそれは明らかです  
 Kevin is straight, as he says.    	  ケヴィン曰く 彼は普通に 生活できているようです  
 We truly thank God for you.    	  私たちはあなたの存在を 心から神様に感謝すると同時に  
 Sincerely indebted to you,  Narvella Berthia."    	  あなたに深い恩義を感じています ナヴェラ・ベルシア""  
 And on the bottom she writes,  "P.S. When I visited San Francisco General Hospital that evening,  you were listed as the patient.    	  そして 手紙の一番下に 彼女はこう書いています “PS その日の午後に私が サンフランシスコ総合病院を訪れた際 あなたの名前を患者リストに見つけました  
 Boy, did I have to straighten that one out."    	  あなたと息子の名前を 取り違えないようにしないといけませんね""  
 Today, Kevin is a loving father  and contributing member of society.    	  今日 ケヴィンは愛情あふれる父親であり 社会に貢献する一人でもあります 今日 ケヴィンは愛情あふれる父親であり 社会に貢献する一人でもあります  
 He speaks openly  about the events that day and his depression  in the hopes that his story  will inspire others.    	  彼は あの日の出来事や鬱病について 人前で話をすることで 彼は あの日の出来事や鬱病について 人前で話をすることで 自身の体験談が 他の人達のために なることを期待しています 自身の体験談が 他の人達のために なることを期待しています  
 Suicide is not just something I've encountered on the job.    	  私にとって 自殺は単に職業上 関わっているだけではありません  
 It's personal.    	  個人的な問題でもあります  
 My grandfather committed suicide by poisoning.    	  私の祖父は 服毒自殺で亡くなりました  
 That act, although ending his own pain,  robbed me from ever getting to know him.    	  そうすることで 祖父は自らの苦しみに 終止符を打ちましたが 一方で 私は祖父について知ることが できなくなりました  
 This is what suicide does.    	  これこそが 自殺の結末なのです  
 For most suicidal folks,  or those contemplating suicide,  they wouldn't think of hurting another person.    	  自殺者や自殺志願者の多くは 自殺者や自殺志願者の多くは 他人を傷つけようと 考えているわけではありません  
 They just want their own pain to end.    	  単に自らの苦しみを終えたいだけなのです  
 Typically, this is accomplished in just three ways:  sleep, drugs or alcohol, or death.    	  ３つの典型的な方法があります 睡眠 薬物あるいはアルコール そして自殺です  
 In my career, I've responded to  and been involved in hundreds  of mental illness and suicide calls  around the bridge.    	  これまで私は 橋周辺で数百人の 自殺志願者に対処してきましたが これまで私は 橋周辺で数百人の 自殺志願者に対処してきましたが これまで私は 橋周辺で数百人の 自殺志願者に対処してきましたが これまで私は 橋周辺で数百人の 自殺志願者に対処してきましたが  
 Of those incidents I've been directly involved with,  I've only lost two,  but that's two too many.    	  直接携わった事件のうち 自殺の引き止めに 失敗したのは たった２人だけです 直接携わった事件のうち 自殺の引き止めに 失敗したのは たった２人だけです しかし 二人というのは多すぎます  
 One was Jason.    	  一人はジェイソンです  
 The other was a man I spoke to  for about an hour.    	  もう一人の男性と私は １時間ほど話し続けました もう一人の男性と私は １時間ほど話し続けました  
 During that time, he shook my hand  on three occasions.    	  その間 彼は３回にわたって 私に握手を求めてきました その間 彼は３回にわたって 私に握手を求めてきました  
 On that final handshake,  he looked at me, and he said,  "Kevin, I'm sorry, but I have to go."    	  最後の握手の際に 彼は 私を見つめながらこう言いました 最後の握手の際に 彼は 私を見つめながらこう言いました “ケヴィン 悪いんだが 俺はもう行かなければならない"" と  
 And he leapt.    	  そして 彼は飛び降りました  
 Horrible, absolutely horrible.    	  本当に 本当に 悲惨な出来事です  
 I do want to tell you, though,  the vast majority of folks  that we do get to contact on that bridge  do not commit suicide.    	  しかし 是非とも お伝えしておきたいのは 我々が橋で語り合った自殺志願者の多くは 自殺しなかったということです 我々が橋で語り合った自殺志願者の多くは 自殺しなかったということです 我々が橋で語り合った自殺志願者の多くは 自殺しなかったということです  
 Additionally, that very few  who have jumped off the bridge and lived  and can talk about it,  that one to two percent,  most of those folks have said  that the second that they let go of that rail,  they knew that they had made a mistake  and they wanted to live.    	  更に言うなら 橋から飛び降りたものの 更に言うなら 橋から飛び降りたものの 生き残ったわずか１~２%の人々は たいていこう言います 生き残ったわずか１~２%の人々は たいていこう言います 生き残ったわずか１~２%の人々は たいていこう言います 橋から飛び降りた瞬間に 自分が間違いを犯したことを理解し 橋から飛び降りた瞬間に 自分が間違いを犯したことを理解し 生き続けたいと思ったのだと  
 I tell people, the bridge not only connects  Marin to San Francisco,  but people together also.    	  この橋は マリーンとサンフランシスコの間を 地理的にだけでなく この橋は マリーンとサンフランシスコの間を 地理的にだけでなく 人々の心を繋げています  
 That connection, or bridge that we make,  is something that each and every one of us  should strive to do.    	  その繋がりこそが 我々一人一人が努力して 作り出さなければいけないものです 我々一人一人が努力して 作り出さなければいけないものです  
 Suicide is preventable.    	  自殺は防ぐことができます  
 There is help. There is hope.    	  救うことが出来ます 希望はあります  
 Thank you very much.    	  ご清聴ありがとうございました  
 The world makes you something that you're not,  but you know inside what you are,  and that question burns in your heart:  How will you become that?    	  世界によって自分らしさを 曲げられてしまうことがありますが 心の中では自分をよく知っているので 胸の中で ある問いがくすぶっているものです 「どうしたら自分らしくなれるのだろうか？」と  
 I may be somewhat unique in this,  but I am not alone,  not alone at all.    	  私はこの点においては 少し変わっているかもしれません でも私は独りではありません 独りではないのです  
 So when I became a fashion model,  I felt that I'd finally achieved the dream  that I'd always wanted since I was a young child.    	  私はファッションモデルになったとき 小さい子供だった頃から ずっと夢であったことが叶ったと思いました  
 My outside self finally matched my inner truth,  my inner self.    	  外側の私がついに内面と― 内面の私と一致したのです  
 For complicated reasons which I'll get to later,  when I look at this picture,  at that time I felt like, Geena, you've done it,  you've made it,  you have arrived.    	  後で説明しますが いくつもの複雑な理由から この写真を見たとき 私は「ジーナ ついにやったわね やり遂げた ここまで来たのね」と思いました  
 But this past October,  I realized that I'm only just beginning.    	  でも この10月になって まだまだ これからなのだと気づきました  
 All of us are put in boxes by our family,  by our religion,  by our society,  our moment in history,  even our own bodies.    	  私たちは皆 型にはめられています 家族によって 宗教によって 社会によって 生まれた時代によって そして自分の身体によって  
 Some people have the courage to break free,  not to accept the limitations imposed by  the color of their skin  Those people are always the threat  to the status quo,  to what is considered acceptable.    	  中にはそれを打ち破る勇気を持つ人もいます 肌の色や周りの人々の考えによって 押しつけられる制限を 受け入れない人々です 彼らは常に 現状に対する 容認されていることに対する脅威です  
 In my case, for the last nine years,  some of my neighbors,  some of my friends, colleagues, even my agent,  did not know about my history.    	  私の場合 ここ９年の間 近所の人々や 友人 同僚 事務所までもが 私の過去を知りませんでした  
 I think, in mystery, this is called the reveal.    	  ミステリーでは これは謎解きというのでしょうか  
 Here is mine.    	  私の謎解きはこうです  
 I was assigned boy at birth  based on the appearance of my genitalia.    	  私は生まれたとき 生殖器の外見によって 男の子だとされました  
 I remember when I was five years old  in the Philippines walking around our house,  I would always wear this t-shirt on my head.    	  今でも覚えているのは ５歳の時 フィリピンで家の中を歩きまわっているとき いつも頭にＴシャツをのせていたことです  
 And my mom asked me,  "How come you always wear that t-shirt on your head?"    	  母は私に向かって 「どうしていつもＴシャツを 頭にのせてるの？」と聞きました  
 I said, "Mom, this is my hair. I'm a girl."    	  私は「お母さん これ髪の毛なの 私女の子なんだよ」と言いました  
 I knew then how to self-identify.    	  当時 私は自分の個性を 表現する方法を知っていたのです  
 Gender has always been considered a fact,  immutable,  but we now know it's actually more fluid,  complex and mysterious.    	  ジェンダーは常に 変えることのできない事実だと 考えられてきましたが 現代の私たちは ジェンダーは より流動的で 複雑で神秘的なものだと理解しています  
 Because of my success, I never had the courage  to share my story,  not because I thought what I am is wrong,  but because of how the world treats those of us  who wish to break free.    	  手にした成功ゆえに 私は自分の物語を 共有する勇気がありませんでした それは自分が間違っていると 思っていたからではなく 自由になりたいと願っている私たちを 世界が どう扱うか知っていたからです  
 Every day,  I am so grateful because I am a woman.    	  毎日 私は自分が女性であることに 心から感謝しています  
 I have a mom and dad and family  who accepted me for who I am. Many are not so fortunate.    	  私をありのままに受け止めてくれる 母や父 家族がいます このように恵まれていない人々が 沢山います  
 There's a long tradition in Asian culture  that celebrates the fluid mystery of gender.    	  アジアの文化には 流動的なジェンダーという神秘を 祝福する長い伝統があります  
 There is a Buddhist goddess of compassion.    	  仏教には慈悲の女神がいます  
 There is a Hindu goddess, hijra goddess.    	  ヒンドゥー教にはトランスジェンダーの ヒジュラの女神がいます  
 So when I was eight years old,  I was at a fiesta in the Philippines celebrating  these mysteries.    	  ８歳の時 私はこうした神秘を祝福する フィリピンのお祭りに 出掛けました  
 I was in front of the stage,  and I remember, out comes this beautiful woman  right in front of me,  and I remember that moment something hit me:  That is the kind of woman I would like to be.    	  私が舞台の前にいると 今でも覚えています 目の前に この美しい女性が 現れました この瞬間 何かが心を打ったのです 私はこんな女の人になりたいんだ と  
 still dressing as a boy,  I met this woman named T.L.    	  そしてまだ男の子の格好をしていた 15歳の時 T.L.という女性に出会いました  
 She is a transgender beauty pageant manager.    	  彼女はトランスジェンダーの 美人コンテストのマネージャーでした  
 That night she asked me,  "How come you are not joining the beauty pageant?"    	  その夜 彼女は私に 「どうして美人コンテストに参加しないの？」 と聞いたのです  
 She convinced me that if I joined  that she would take care of the registration fee  and the garments,  and that night,  I won best in swimsuit  and best in long gown  and placed second runner up  among 40-plus candidates.    	  私が参加すれば 参加費と衣装の世話をしてくれるという 彼女に説得されると その晩 私は水着部門と ロングドレス部門で優勝し 40人以上いた候補者の中で 第２位に入ったのです 40人以上いた候補者の中で 第２位に入ったのです  
 That moment changed my life.    	  その瞬間 私の人生が変わりました  
 All of a sudden, I was introduced  to the world of beauty pageants.    	  突然 私は美人コンテストの世界に 足を踏み入れたのです  
 Not a lot of people could say that your first job  is a pageant queen for transgender women,  but I'll take it.    	  初仕事がトランスジェンダーの女性の 美人コンテストの女王だと言える女性は 少ないでしょうが 私はそう言うことにします  
 So from 15 to 17 years old, I joined  the most prestigious pageant  to the pageant where it's at the back of the truck, literally,  or sometimes it would be a pavement next to a rice field,  and when it rains --  it rains a lot in the Philippines --  the organizers would have to move it  inside someone's house.    	  15歳から17歳まで 私は 一流の美人コンテストから 文字通りトラックの荷台で行われる コンテストまで色々参加してきました 時には 田んぼのすぐ横の道端で行われ 雨が降ると― フィリピンでは雨がよく降るんです― 運営側が会場を 誰かの家の中に移したこともありました  
 I also experienced the goodness of strangers,  especially when we would travel  in remote provinces in the Philippines.    	  私は見知らぬ人の優しさも経験しました 特にフィリピンの 人里離れた田舎を旅しているときなどです  
 But most importantly, I met  some of my best friends in that community.    	  ですが 最も重要なことは コミュニティの中で 親友に出会ったことです  
 In 2001,  my mom, who had moved to San Francisco,  called me and told me that my green card petition came through,  that I could now move to the United States.    	  2001年に サンフランシスコに移住していた私の母が 電話をかけてきて 私の永住ビザの申請が通ったから アメリカに移ることができると 教えてくれました  
 I resisted it.    	  私は抵抗しました  
 I told my mom, "Mom, I'm having fun.    	  私は母に「お母さん この生活が楽しいの  
 I'm here with my friends,  I love traveling, being a beauty pageant queen."    	  友達もいるし 旅回りも 美人コンテストの女王で いるのも好きなの」と言いました  
 But then two weeks later she called me, she said,  "Did you know that if you move to the United States  you could change your name and gender marker?"    	  それから２週間後に 母は電話でこう言ったのです 「アメリカに移住すれば 名前も性別も変えられるって知ってる？」と  
 That was all I needed to hear.    	  それだけ聞けば私は十分でした  
 My mom also told me to put two E's  in the spelling of my name.    	  母は名前の綴りのEを ２つにしたらいいよと 言ってくれました  
 She also came with me when I had my surgery  in Thailand at 19 years old.    	  母は私が手術を受けたときにも来てくれました 19歳のとき タイでのことです  
 It's interesting, in some of the most rural cities in Thailand,  they perform some of the most prestigious,  safe and sophisticated surgery.    	  面白いことに タイの片田舎の中には 最も名高く 安全で 最新の手術を 行っているところがあるんです  
 At that time in the United States,  before you could change your name and gender marker.    	  当時アメリカでは 名前や性別を変える前に 手術をしておかなければならなかったのです  
 So in 2001, I moved to San Francisco,  and I remember looking at my California driver's license  with the name Geena  and gender marker F.    	  2001年に 私はサンフランシスコに移り カリフォルニアの運転免許証を 見たときのことを覚えています ジーナという名前で 性別がFと書かれていました  
 That was a powerful moment.    	  とてもパワフルな瞬間でした  
 For some people,  their I.D. is their license to drive  or even to get a drink,  but for me, that was my license to live,  to feel dignified.    	  ある人々にとって 身分証とは運転するためや お酒を飲むためのものですが 私にとっては 生きるための証明― 尊厳を感じるための証明でした  
 All of a sudden, my fears were minimized.    	  突如として 私の恐怖が最小化されたのです  
 I felt that I could conquer my dream  and move to New York and be a model.    	  私は夢を追いかけて ニューヨークへ移り モデルになれると思いました  
 Many are not so fortunate.    	  このように恵まれていない人々が沢山います  
 I think of this woman named Islan Nettles.    	  アイラ・ネトルズという女性のことを思い出します  
 She's from New York, she's a young woman  who was courageously living her truth,  but hatred ended her life.    	  彼女はニューヨーク出身の若い女性で 勇気を持って本当の自分を生きようとしていましたが 憎しみによって命を絶ちました  
 For most of my community,  this is the reality in which we live.    	  私が属するコミュニティの多くの人々にとって これが私たちが生きる現実なのです  
 Our suicide rate is nine times higher  than that of the general population.    	  私たちの自殺率は 他の人々と比べて ９倍も高いのです  
 Every November 20,  we have a global vigil  for Transgender Day of Remembrance.    	  毎年11月20日は トランスジェンダー追悼の日で 国際記念日として運動が行われます  
 I'm here at this stage  because it's a long history of people who fought  and stood up for injustice.    	  私がこのステージに立てるのは 不公平に対して立ち上がり 闘った人々の 長い歴史のおかげです  
 This is Marsha P. Johnson and Sylvia Rivera.    	  マーシャ P. ジョンソンとシルヴィア・リヴェラです  
 Today, this very moment,  is my real coming out.    	  今日 まさに この瞬間が 私の本当のカミングアウトです  
 I could no longer live my truth  for and by myself.    	  私は もう自分の真実を 私のためにだけに 生きることはできません  
 I want to do my best to help others  live their truth without shame and terror.    	  私は他の人々が 不名誉や恐怖を感じることなく 真実を生きることができるよう できるだけのことをしたいです  
 I am here, exposed,  so that one day there will never be a need  for a November 20 vigil.    	  私はここで 皆さんの目にさらされています そうすることで 11月20日の追悼が 二度と― 必要とされない日を迎えるためです  
 My deepest truth allowed me to accept who I am.    	  私の奥底にある真実が ありのままの自分を 受け入れさせてくれたのです  
 Will you?    	  皆さんも受け入れてくれますか？  
 Thank you very much.    	  どうもありがとうございました  
   Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.   Kathryn Schulz: Geena, one quick question for you.    	   ありがとう　ありがとう　ありがとう  キャスリン・シュルツ： ジーナ １つだけ質問させて下さい  
 I'm wondering what you would say,  especially to parents,  but in a more broad way, to friends,  to family, to anyone who finds themselves  encountering a child or a person  who is struggling with and uncomfortable with  a gender that's being assigned them,  to the family members of that person  to help them become good and caring and kind  family members to them?    	  あなたなら何と言いますか― 特に親御さんに対して あるいは より広い意味で 友人や 家族など 自分に割り当てられた 性別について葛藤し 居心地の悪い思いをしている 子供や大人に出会った人たちに― あなたなら その人の家族に 何と声をかけますか 思いやりがある優しい家族として 接することができるようになるには？  
 Geena Rocero: Sure. Well, first, really, I'm so blessed.    	  ロセロ：ええ そうですね まず本当に私は恵まれています  
 The support system, with my mom especially,  and my family, that in itself  is just so powerful.    	  サポート体制ですね 特に母 そして家族が いるだけで とても心強いものでした  
 I remember every time I would coach  young trans women, I would mentor them,  and sometimes when they would call me  and tell me that their parents can't accept it,  I would pick up that phone call and tell my mom,  "Mom, can you call this woman?"    	  若いトランスジェンダーの女性を コーチングする度に 彼女たちの指導をしているのですが― 時には彼女たちが電話をしてきて ご両親が受け入れてくれない と言うことがあります 私はその電話を受けて 母にこう言うこともあります 「お母さん この女性と話してくれる？」  
 And sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't, so —  But it's just, gender identity  is in the core of our being, right?    	  上手くいくときも いかないときもありますね それでも性同一性というのは 私たちの在り方の核になるものですよね？  
 I mean, we're all assigned gender at birth,  so what I'm trying to do  sometimes that gender assignment doesn't match,  and there should be a space  that would allow people to self-identify,  and that's a conversation that we should have  with parents, with colleagues.    	  つまり 誰もが生まれたときに 性別を与えられますが 私がやろうとしているのは 割り当てられた性別が一致しない場合に 対話を持つこと― そして人々が自ら個性を表現できるような ゆとりを設けることです このような対話を 親や同僚たちと持つべきなのです  
 The transgender movement,  to compare to how the gay movement started.    	  トランスジェンダーの運動は ゲイの運動の始まり方と比較すると まさに始まったばかりです  
 There's still a lot of work that needs to be done.    	  取り組むべき問題が まだ沢山あります  
 There should be an understanding.    	  理解が必要ですし  
 There should be a space of curiosity  and asking questions,  and I hope all of you guys will be my allies.    	  興味を持ってもらい 質問ができるような ゆとりが必要です 皆さんが私の味方になってくれることを 願っています  
 KS: Thank you. That was so lovely. GR: Thank you.    	  シュルツ：ありがとう　素晴らしかったです ロセロ：ありがとう  
 In many patriarchal societies and tribal societies,  fathers are usually known by their sons,  but I'm one of the few fathers  who is known by his daughter,  and I am proud of it.    	  多くの家父長社会と 部族社会では 父親が息子の出世で有名になりますが 私は そんな中で数少ない 娘によって有名になった父親です これを光栄に思います  
   Malala started her campaign for education  and stood for her rights in 2007,  and when her efforts were honored in 2011,  and she was given the national youth peace prize,  and she became a very famous,  very popular young girl of her country.    	  （拍手） マララが教育のための キャンペーンを始めて 女性の権利を求めて立ち上がったのは 2007年のことでした 彼女の努力が認められたのは 2011年のことです パキスタン政府から 「国民平和賞」を授与されると 一躍有名になりました パキスタンを代表する 有名な女の子になったのです  
 Before that, she was my daughter,  but now I am her father.    	  それまでマララは 「ジアウディンの娘」でしたが 今では私が 「マララの父親」と呼ばれます  
 Ladies and gentlemen,  if we glance to human history,  the story of women  is the story of injustice,  inequality,  violence and exploitation.    	  ご来場の皆さま 人類の歴史を振り返ってまいりますと 女性の歴史とは 不公正の物語であり 不平等 暴力､搾取がつきものでした  
 You see,  in patriarchal societies,  right from the very beginning,  when a girl is born,  her birth is not celebrated.    	  ご存知のとおり 家父長社会は 子どもが産声を上げた時から 始まります 女の子が生まれると その誕生は祝福されません  
 She is not welcomed,  neither by father nor by mother.    	  誰からも歓迎されず 実の両親にすら 喜ばれません  
 The neighborhood comes  and commiserates with the mother,  and nobody congratulates the father.    	  近所の人たちが訪れては 母親をなぐさめます 父親に「おめでとう」と 言う人はいません  
 And a mother is very uncomfortable  for having a girl child.    	  女の子を産んだことで 母親は― とても肩身の狭い思いをします  
 When she gives birth to the first girl child,  first daughter, she is sad.    	  初めての子供が 女の子だった時 母親は悲しみにくれ  
 When she gives birth to the second daughter,  she is shocked,  and in the expectation of a son,  when she gives birth to a third daughter,  she feels guilty like a criminal.    	  ２人目の子供が女の子だと 母親はショックを受けます 今度こそ息子でありますようにと 願いながら ３人目の子供も女の子だと 犯罪者のごとく 罪悪感にかられます  
 Not only the mother suffers,  but the daughter, the newly born daughter,  when she grows old,  she suffers too.    	  この苦しみは 母親だけのものではありません 娘に受け継がれます 生まれた女の子が 大きくなると また苦しみをうけるのです  
 At the age of five,  while she should be going to school,  she stays at home  and her brothers are admitted in a school.    	  彼女が５歳になると 就学すべき年齢なのに 家にいなければいけません 彼女の兄弟達は 学校に行けるのにです  
 Until the age of 12, somehow,  she has a good life.    	  彼女が12歳になるまでは どうにか良い生活を送ります  
 She can have fun.    	  楽しいことができます  
 She can play with her friends in the streets,  and she can move around in the streets  like a butterfly.    	  道端で友達と一緒に遊んだり 一人で外を歩いたりできるのです 蝶々みたいに自由です  
 But when she enters her teens,  when she becomes 13 years old,  she is forbidden to go out of her home  without a male escort.    	  ところが十代になると ―13歳になると 女性は男性のつきそいなしに 出かけることを禁じられます  
 She is confined under the four walls of her home.    	  家の中に閉じ込められるのです  
 She is no more a free individual. She becomes the so-called honor  of her father and of her brothers  and of her family,  and if she transgresses  the code of that so-called honor,  she could even be killed.    	  もはや自由を謳歌できる 一個人ではなくなります 女性は父親や兄弟 そして家族にとっての いわゆる「名誉」になるのです ですから女性が この「名誉」を傷つけると 殺されることすらあります  
 And it is also interesting that this so-called  code of honor,  it does not only affect the life of a girl,  it also affects the life  of the male members of the family.    	  面白いことに この「名誉」と呼ばれるものが 女の子の人生に 影響を及ぼすだけでなく 家族の男性陣の人生にまで 影響を与えるのです  
 I know a family of seven sisters and one brother,  and that one brother,  he has migrated to the Gulf countries,  to earn a living for his seven sisters  and parents,  because he thinks that it will be humiliating  if his seven sisters learn a skill  and they go out of the home  and earn some livelihood.    	  ７人の娘たちと１人の息子から成る 家族がいまして この１人の息子は 湾岸諸国に出稼ぎに出ています ７人の姉妹と両親を 食べさせるためです なぜかというと ７人の姉妹が スキルを磨いて 家を出て生活費を得ることが 恥だと考えているからです  
 So this brother,  he sacrifices the joys of his life  and the happiness of his sisters  at the altar of so-called honor.    	  ですから彼は 「名誉」と呼ばれるもののために 自身の生きる喜びや 姉妹の幸せを犠牲にしているのです  
 And there is one more norm  of the patriarchal societies  that is called obedience.    	  家父長社会にある もう一つの規範が 「服従」と呼ばれるものです  
 A good girl is supposed to be  very quiet, very humble  and very submissive.    	  良い女の子として 求められるのは とても物静かで慎ましく とても従順なことです  
 It is the criteria.    	  これが良い条件です  
 The role model good girl should be very quiet.    	  良い女の子とは おとなしくなければいけません  
 She is supposed to be silent  and she is supposed to accept the decisions  of her father and mother  and the decisions of elders,  even if she does not like them.    	  彼女達に求められるのは 父親や母親､年長者による決定を 黙って 受け入れることです たとえ本人が嫌だったとしてもです  
 If she is married to a man she doesn't like  or if she is married to an old man,  she has to accept,  because she does not want to be dubbed  If she is married very early,  she has to accept.    	  ですから自分が気に入らない男性や 年の離れた男性との結婚でも 受け入れざるをえないのです 従順さに欠けると 受け取られたくないからです まだ幼くして結婚させられても 受け入れなくてはいけません  
 Otherwise, she will be called disobedient.    	  さもないと従順ではないという 烙印を押されるからです  
 And what happens at the end?    	  すると どうなると思いますか？  
 In the words of a poetess,  she is wedded, bedded,  and then she gives birth to more sons and daughters.    	  ある女流詩人の言葉を借りるなら 「結婚を強いられ 夫婦関係を強いられ 次から次へと 息子や娘を産んだ」と  
 And it is the irony of the situation  that this mother,  she teaches the same lesson of obedience  to her daughter  and the same lesson of honor to her sons.    	  この状況で皮肉なのは この母親が 同じ「服従」の大切さを 娘に説いて 同じ「名誉」の重要さを 息子に教えるのです  
 And this vicious cycle goes on, goes on.    	  こうやって悪しきサイクルが 果てしなく続いていくのです  
 Ladies and gentlemen,  this plight of millions of women  could be changed  if we think differently,  if women and men think differently,  if men and women in the tribal and patriarchal societies  in the developing countries,  if they can break a few norms  of family and society,  if they can abolish the discriminatory laws  of the systems in their states,  which go against the basic human rights  of the women.    	  ご来場の皆さま 何百万人の女性の このような窮状を 変えるためには 違う考え方を持つことです 男性と女性が これまでの考え方を変えること 開発途上国の 部族社会や家父長社会にいる 男性と女性が 家族や社会にある いくつかの規範を 断ち切ることです 国内にはびこる 女性の基本的人権に反する 社会の体制を作る 差別的な規範を 廃止することです  
 Dear brothers and sisters, when Malala was born,  and for the first time,  believe me,  I don't like newborn children, to be honest,  but when I went and I looked into her eyes,  believe me,  I got extremely honored.    	  親愛なる兄弟姉妹の皆さま マララが生まれた日のことです 初めて溢れてきた思いは ―実のところ 生まれたての子どもは 苦手な私でしたが― 生まれたばかりの マララの目を見ると 心から とても誇らしい気持ちになりました  
 And long before she was born,  I thought about her name,  legendary freedom fighter in Afghanistan.    	  彼女が生まれる ずっと前から 名前は決めていました 私はアフガニスタンで 自由のために戦った 伝説のヒロインに魅せられていました  
 Her name was Malalai of Maiwand,  and I named my daughter after her.    	  彼女はマイワンドのマラライと呼ばれました 娘の名前は 彼女にちなんだものです  
 A few days after Malala was born,  my daughter was born,  my cousin came --  and it was a coincidence --  he came to my home  and he brought a family tree,  a family tree of the Yousafzai family,  and when I looked at the family tree,  it traced back to 300 years of our ancestors.    	  マララが生まれて 数日後のことです 私のいとこが 我が家にやって来て 偶然にも 家系図を持ってきたのです ユスフザイ家の家系図で それを見ると 300年前の祖先まで さかのぼるものでした  
 But when I looked, all were men,  and I picked my pen,  drew a line from my name,  and wrote, "Malala."    	  でも そこに書かれているのは 男の名前だけで ペンを手にした私は 私の名前から線を引いて 「マララ」と書きました  
 And when she grow old,  when she was four and a half years old,  I admitted her in my school.    	  彼女が成長し ４歳半になると 私が経営する学校への 入学を認めました  
 You will be asking, then, why should I mention about  the admission of a girl in a school?    	  皆さんは私が 女児の入学許可について あえて申し上げるのを 不思議に思われるでしょうか  
 Yes, I must mention it.    	  そう 話さなければいけないんです  
 It may be taken for granted in Canada,  in America, in many developed countries,  but in poor countries,  in patriarchal societies, in tribal societies,  it's a big event for the life of girl.    	  カナダやアメリカ その他の多くの先進国では 当たり前のことかもしれませんが 貧しい国々や 家父長社会､部族社会では 就学とは女の子にとって 一大事です  
 Enrollment in a school means  recognition of her identity and her name.    	  学校に通えるということは 自分のアイデンティティや名前を 認めてもらえること  
 Admission in a school means  that she has entered the world of dreams  and aspirations  where she can explore her potentials  for her future life.    	  学校に通えるということは 将来のために 自分の可能性を 探せる 夢や希望をかなえる場所に 足を踏み入れることです  
 I have five sisters,  and none of them could go to school,  and you will be astonished,  two weeks before,  when I was filling out the Canadian visa form,  and I was filling out the family part of the form,  I could not recall  the surnames of some of my sisters.    	  私には５人の姉妹がおりますが 誰一人として 学校に通えませんでした 皆さん驚かれるでしょうが ２週間前のことです カナダビザの申請書を 作成していたんですが 自分の家族について 記載する箇所があり 姉妹の内 何人かの 名字を思い出せませんでした  
 And the reason was  that I have never, never seen the names  of my sisters written on any document.    	  といいますのも 私の姉妹の氏名が書かれた書類を 一度たりとも見たことがなかったのです  
 That was the reason that  I valued my daughter.    	  こういったことから 私は娘を大切にしました  
 What my father could not give to my sisters  and to his daughters,  I thought I must change it.    	  父が私の姉妹 つまり父の娘達に 与えられなかったもの これを変えなければと思いました  
 I used to appreciate the intelligence  and the brilliance of my daughter.    	  私は娘の知性と聡明さを 大事にしてきました  
 I encouraged her to sit with me  when my friends used to come.    	  私の友人が来ると 娘をそばに座らせ  
 I encouraged her to go with me to different meetings.    	  様々な会合に 一緒に連れて行きました  
 And all these good values,  I tried to inculcate in her personality.    	  これら全ての良い価値観が 彼女自身に根付けばと願いました  
 And this was not only she, only Malala.    	  これはマララだけに 願ったことではありません  
 I imparted all these good values  to my school, girl students and boy students as well.    	  こうした良い価値観全てを 男女分け隔てなく 私の学校の全生徒に教えました  
 I used education for emancipation.    	  教育を通して 子ども達を解き放ちました  
 I taught my girls,  I taught my girl students,  to unlearn the lesson of obedience.    	  私が女の子達 女子生徒に教えたのは 服従の教えを学ばないこと  
 I taught my boy students  to unlearn the lesson of so-called pseudo-honor.    	  男子生徒に教えたのは 偽りの名誉の教えを 学ばないことです  
 Dear brothers and sisters,  we were striving for more rights for women,  and we were struggling to have more,  more and more space for the women in society.    	  親愛なる兄弟姉妹の皆さん 私達は女性の権利のために 戦ってきました そして社会に もっともっと沢山の 女性の居場所を作るため 努力してきました  
 But we came across a new phenomenon.    	  ところが新しい障壁が 立ちはだかりました  
 It was lethal to human rights  and particularly to women's rights.    	  人権を脅かし 特に女性の権利を危険にさらしている  
 It was called Talibanization.    	  タリバン化と呼ばれたものです  
 It means a complete negation  of women's participation  in all political, economical and social activities.    	  タリバン支配下では 全ての政治､経済 社会活動において 女性の参画が完全に否定されます  
 Hundreds of schools were lost.    	  数百にのぼる学校が破壊されました  
 Girls were prohibited from going to school.    	  女の子は学校に通うことを 禁じられます  
 Women were forced to wear veils  and they were stopped from going to the markets.    	  女性はベールをかぶるよう強要され 市場に買い物に行くことすら 禁じられました  
 Musicians were silenced,  girls were flogged  and singers were killed.    	  音楽は取り上げられ 女の子が鞭で打たれ 歌手が殺されました  
 Millions were suffering,  but few spoke,  and it was the most scary thing  who kill and who flog,  and you speak for your rights.    	  何百万もの人々が苦しみましたが 声をあげた人は ほとんどいませんでした 一番恐ろしかったのは 殺人や鞭打ちが横行している そんな中で 自分達の権利のために 声をあげることでしょう  
 It's really the most scary thing.    	  本当に本当に怖かったです  
 At the age of 10,  Malala stood, and she stood for the right  of education.    	  マララは10歳になると 教育を受ける権利のため 立ち上がりました  
 She wrote a diary for the BBC blog,  she volunteered herself  for the New York Times documentaries,  and she spoke from every platform she could.    	  英BBC放送のブログに日記を投稿し 米ニューヨーク・タイムズの 短編ドキュメンタリー制作に協力し あらゆる場所で声をあげました  
 And her voice was the most powerful voice.    	  マララの声が一番パワフルでした  
 It spread like a crescendo all around the world.    	  その声は勢いを増しながら 世界中に広がり  
 And that was the reason the Taliban  could not tolerate her campaign,  and on October 9 2012,  she was shot in the head at point blank range.    	  これがタリバンが 彼女の活動を 容認できなくなった理由でした 2012年10月9日のことです マララは至近距離で 額を撃たれました  
 It was a doomsday for my family and for me.    	  私と私の家族にとって まさに世界の終わりでした  
 The world turned into a big black hole.    	  世界が大きなブラックホールに 飲み込まれたのです  
 While my daughter was  on the verge of life and death,  I whispered into the ears of my wife,  "Should I be blamed for what happened  to my daughter and your daughter?"    	  私の娘が 生と死のはざまを さまよっている間 私は妻の耳元で つぶやきました 「私達の娘に起こったことは 私の責任だろうか？」  
 And she abruptly told me,  "Please don't blame yourself.    	  彼女はすぐに 「どうか自分を責めないで  
 You stood for the right cause.    	  あなたは正義のために立ち上がった  
 You put your life at stake  for the cause of truth,  for the cause of peace,  and for the cause of education,  and your daughter in inspired from you  and she joined you.    	  自分の命の危険をさらしてまで 真実を求めて 平和を求めて 教育を求めた そんなあなたに感化されて 娘は後に続いたのよ  
 You both were on the right path  and God will protect her."    	  ２人とも正しい道を歩んできたから 神様はきっとマララを守ってくださる」  
 These few words meant a lot to me,  and I didn't ask this question again.    	  この言葉に助けられて 自分を責めることは 二度とありませんでした  
 When Malala was in the hospital,  and she was going through the severe pains  and she had had severe headaches  because her facial nerve was cut down,  I used to see a dark shadow  spreading on the face of my wife. But my daughter never complained.    	  マララが病院で 耐え難い苦痛を経験し 顔の神経損傷による 重度の頭痛を抱えていた時 妻の顔に 暗い影がさしたのを見かけたものです そんな時でさえ 娘は不満をもらしませんでした  
 She used to tell us,  "I'm fine with my crooked smile  and with my numbness in my face.    	  よく私達に言ってくれたのは 「笑えなくたって 顔が麻痺していても大丈夫  
 I'll be okay. Please don't worry."    	  よくなるから どうか心配しないでね」  
 She was a solace for us,  and she consoled us.    	  彼女は私達をなぐさめ 癒してくれました  
 Dear brothers and sisters,  we learned from her how to be resilient  in the most difficult times,  and I'm glad to share with you  for the rights of children and women,  she is like any 16-year old girl.    	  親愛なる兄弟姉妹の皆さん 私達がマララから学んだことは 最も困難な時でさえ 立ち向かっていく力です 皆さんに ぜひお伝えしたいのは マララが 子供と女性の権利を取り戻す 希望の象徴であったとしても 普通の16歳の女の子と 何ら変わりないことです  
 She cries when her homework is incomplete.    	  宿題が終わらない時は 泣きますし  
 She quarrels with her brothers,  and I am very happy for that.    	  弟達と喧嘩します 私には それがとても嬉しいんです  
 People ask me,  what special is in my mentorship  which has made Malala so bold  and so courageous and so vocal and poised?    	  周りの人達から マララみたいに強くて 勇敢で雄弁で 落ちついた子供の 育て方の秘訣を聞かれます  
 I tell them, don't ask me what I did.    	  私の答えは 「私が何かしてあげたのではなく  
 Ask me what I did not do.    	  あることをしなかったお陰でしょう  
 I did not clip her wings, and that's all.    	  彼女の『翼』を切り取らなかった それだけです」  
 Thank you very much.    	  ありがとうございました  
   Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.     	  （拍手） ありがとうございました 本当にありがとうございました　（拍手）  
 I had brain surgery 18 years ago,  and since that time, brain science has become  a personal passion of mine.    	  18年前に脳の手術を受けて以来 — 脳科学に 夢中になりました  
 I'm actually an engineer.    	  私は技術者です  
 And first let me say, I recently joined  Google's Moonshot group,  where I had a division,  the display division in Google X,  and the brain science work I'm speaking about today  is work I did before I joined Google  and on the side outside of Google.    	  Googleの ムーンショット・プロジェクトに 最近加わり Xラボで ディスプレイ部門を担当しています 今日お話しする研究は それより前の Google社外での話です  
 So that said, there's a stigma  when you have brain surgery.    	  さて 脳の手術を受けると ある種の烙印が押されます  
 Are you still smart or not?    	  つまり頭が悪くなっていないか —  
 And if not, can you make yourself smart again?    	  もし悪くなっていたとしたら 元に戻れるのか・・・  
 After my neurosurgery,  part of my brain was missing,  and I had to deal with that.    	  脳神経外科手術を受けて 脳の一部を失ったので 対処が必要になりました  
 It wasn't the grey matter, but it was the gooey part dead center  that makes key hormones and neurotransmitters.    	  失ったのは灰白質ではなく 重要なホルモンや 神経伝達物質を作る 中心部のブヨブヨした部分です  
 Immediately after my surgery,  I had to decide what amounts of each of over  a dozen powerful chemicals to take each day,  because if I just took nothing,  I would die within hours.    	  手術を終えるとすぐに 毎日 飲まなければならない ― 12種類以上ある薬品の量を 個々に決める必要がありました もし飲まなかったら 数時間で死んでしまうからです  
 Every day now for 18 years -- every single day --  I've had to try to decide the combinations  and mixtures of chemicals,  and try to get them, to stay alive.    	  この18年間 毎日欠かさず 薬の組み合わせや 調合を決定し それを理解しようと努めました 生きるためにです  
 There have been several close calls.    	  何度も危険な目にあいました  
 But luckily, I'm an experimentalist at heart,  so I decided I would experiment  to try to find more optimal dosages  because there really isn't a clear road map  on this that's detailed.    	  でも幸い私は 根っからの実験家なので 最適な投薬量を見つけようと 実験を続けることにしました 投薬量には明確な 目安がなかったからです  
 I began to try different mixtures,  and I was blown away by how  tiny changes in dosages  dramatically changed my sense of self,  my sense of who I was, my thinking,  my behavior towards people.    	  色々な調合を試して驚いたのは 投薬量のほんの わずかな違いによって 自意識や 自分が何者かという感覚 — 思考や 他者に対する行動が 劇的に変化することでした  
 One particularly dramatic case:  for a couple months I actually tried dosages  and chemicals typical of a man in his early 20s,  and I was blown away by how my thoughts changed.    	  特に印象的だった事があります ２か月に渡って 投薬量を20代前半の 男性に典型的な量にしてみたのです びっくりする程 思考が変化しました  
   I was angry all the time,  I thought about sex constantly,  and I thought I was the smartest person  in the entire world, and  ——  of course over the years I'd met guys kind of like that,  or maybe kind of toned-down versions of that.    	   どんな時も怒りっぽくなり セックスのことばかり考え 自分が世界一の天才だと 思うようになったのです  これまで そういう男性にも そこまででもない男性にも 出会ってきましたが  
 I was kind of extreme.    	  私の場合は少し極端でした  
 But to me, the surprise was,  I wasn't trying to be arrogant.    	  ただ 驚いたのは 自分では大きな態度など とるつもりは なかったことです  
 with a little bit of insecurity,  to actually fix a problem in front of me,  and it just didn't come out that way.    	  本当は不安を抱えながら 目の前の問題を 解決しようとしただけなのに 行動には現れないのです  
 So I couldn't handle it.    	  私の手に負えず 投薬量を変えましたが  
 I changed my dosages.    	  この体験のおかげで  
 But that experience, I think, gave me  a new appreciation for men  and I've gotten along with men  a lot better since then.    	  男性の経験することが 理解できました それ以来 男性達とは 前よりうまく つき合っています  
 What I was trying to do  with tuning these hormones and neurotransmitters and so forth  was to try to get my intelligence back  after my illness and surgery,  my creative thought, my idea flow.    	  私が目指したのは ホルモンや神経伝達物質の 量を調整して 病気と手術を経た自分に 知性と創造性 — そして湧き出るアイデアを  
 and so for me that became a key metric --  how to get these mental images  that I use as a way of rapid prototyping,  if you will, my ideas,  trying on different new ideas for size,  playing out scenarios.    	  取り戻すことでした 私は普段 イメージで考えるので イメージは重要でした つまりアイデアを思い描いたり 新しいアイデアを試したり シナリオをなぞるための  
 This kind of thinking isn't new.    	  方法であるイメージを 取り戻す方法です この思考法は新しいものではなく  
 Philiosophers like Hume and Descartes and Hobbes  saw things similarly.    	  ヒュームやデカルト ホッブズといった哲学者も 事物を同様に捉えました  
 They thought that mental images and ideas  were actually the same thing.    	  彼らは心的イメージとアイデアを 同じだと考えたのです  
 There are those today that dispute that,  and lots of debates about how the mind works,  but for me it's simple:  Mental images, for most of us,  are central in inventive and creative thinking.    	  現在は この考えに 反対する人も多く 心の働きに関する 議論も盛んですが 私はシンプルに考えています 私達の大部分にとって 独創的で創造的な思考の 中心にはイメージがあるのです  
 So after several years,  I tuned myself up and I have lots of great,  really vivid mental images with a lot of sophistication  and the analytical backbone behind them.    	  私は数年かけて 自分を調節することで かなり精巧で 分析的な基盤をもった 多くの鮮明なイメージを 取り戻しました  
 And so now I'm working on,  how can I get these mental images in my mind  out to my computer screen faster?    	  今取り組んでいるのは 頭の中にあるイメージを 即 コンピュータ画面に 表示する方法です  
 Can you imagine, if you will,  a movie director being able to use  her imagination alone to direct the world in front of her?    	  想像できますか？ 映画監督は想像するだけで 目の前の世界を 映像化できるようになります  
 Or a musician to get the music out of his head?    	  作曲家は頭の中から 直接音楽を取り出せます  
 as a way for creative people  to share at light speed.    	  クリエイティブな人々にとって アイデアを光速で共有するという ―  
 And the truth is, the remaining bottleneck  in being able to do this  is just upping the resolution of brain scan systems.    	  大きな可能性が開かれるのです 実現するための 最後の障害は 脳スキャンの解像度を 上げることです  
 So let me show you why I think we're pretty close to getting there  by sharing with you two recent experiments  from two top neuroscience groups.    	  私はもう少しで 実現できると考えています その理由を 最先端の２つの 神経科学研究を元にお話しします  
 Both used fMRI technology --  functional magnetic resonance imaging technology --  to image the brain,  and here is a brain scan set from Giorgio Ganis and his colleagues at Harvard.    	  どちらもfMRI つまり ― 機能的磁気共鳴 画像診断装置で 脳内を可視化します これはハーバード大の ジョージオ・ガニス他による ―  
 And the left-hand column shows a brain scan  of a person looking at an image.    	  スキャン画像のセットです 左の列は ある画像を見ている人の  
 The middle column shows the brainscan  of that same individual  imagining, seeing that same image.    	  脳をスキャンしたもの ― 中央は同じ人が その画像を 想像しているところを  
 And the right column was created  by subtracting the middle column from the left column,  showing the difference to be nearly zero.    	  スキャンしたものです 右の列は 左と中央の画像の差分で ほぼ違いがないことがわかります  
 This was repeated on lots of different individuals  with lots of different images,  always with a similar result.    	  色々な画像を使って たくさんの人に この実験を繰り返してみると 常に同様の結果が出ました  
 The difference between seeing an image  and imagining seeing that same image  is next to nothing.    	  画像を見ることと その画像を見ていると 想像することの間には ほとんど違いがないのです  
 Next let me share with you one other experiment,  this from Jack Gallant's lab at Cal Berkeley.    	  もう一つ実験を紹介します カリフォルニア大学バークレー校の ジャック・ギャラント他は  
 They've been able to decode brainwaves  into recognizable visual fields.    	  脳波を解読して 映像に変換することに成功しました  
 So let me set this up for you.    	  ご覧ください  
 In this experiment, individuals were shown  hundreds of hours of YouTube videos  while scans were made of their brains  to create a large library of their brain reacting  to video sequences.    	  実験では被験者がYouTubeの ビデオを数百時間分 見ます 同時に脳をスキャンして ビデオ映像に 脳が反応する様子を 巨大なライブラリーに蓄えます  
 Then a new movie was shown with new images,  new people, new animals in it,  and a new scan set was recorded.    	  新たなイメージや人物 動物が映った 新たなビデオが流れると 新しいスキャン・セットが記録されます  
 The computer, using brain scan data alone,  decoded that new brain scan  to show what it thought the individual was actually seeing.    	  脳をスキャンしたデータだけを使って コンピュータが新しいスキャンを解析し その人が実際に見ている映像を 推測して表示します  
 On the right-hand side, you see the computer's guess,  and on the left-hand side, the presented clip.    	  右はコンピュータが推測した映像で 左は実際に流したビデオです  
 This is the jaw-dropper.    	  これはまさに驚きです  
 We are so close to being able to do this.    	  ここまで来ているのです  
 We just need to up the resolution.    	  あとはただ解像度を上げるだけです  
 And now remember that when you see an image  versus when you imagine that same image,  it creates the same brain scan.    	  ここで確認したいのは 実際に画像を見た時と その画像を想像した時では 同じスキャン画像が 得られるという点です  
 So this was done with the highest-resolution  brain scan systems available today,  and their resolution has increased really  about a thousandfold in the last several years.    	  これは現在 最も解像度が高い システムでスキャンされたものですが 解像度は ここ数年で 千倍向上しています もっと詳しく観察するには  
 Next we need to increase the resolution another thousandfold  to get a deeper glimpse.    	  さらに解像度を千倍上げる ― 必要があります  
 How do we do that?    	  これをどう実現するか？  
 There's a lot of techniques in this approach.    	  いろいろな技術があります  
 One way is to crack open your skull and put in electrodes.    	  頭がい骨を割って 電極を差し込む手もありますが  
 I'm not for that.    	  賛成はできません  
 There's a lot of new imaging techniques  being proposed, some even by me,  but given the recent success of MRI,  first we need to ask the question,  is it the end of the road with this technology?    	  新たなイメージング技術が 次々に提案され 私もいくつか開発しましたが 近年のMRIによる成果を考えると 検討が必要なことがあります この技術の進歩は 限界に達したのでしょうか？  
 Conventional wisdom says the only way  to get higher resolution is with bigger magnets,  but at this point bigger magnets  only offer incremental resolution improvements,  not the thousandfold we need.    	  一般的に 解像度を上げるには 磁石の巨大化が 必須だとされています ただ 磁石を大きくしても 解像度は少しずつしか向上せず 必要な千倍には達しません  
 I'm putting forward an idea:  instead of bigger magnets,  let's make better magnets.    	  そこで考えました 磁石を大きくするのではなく 磁石の性能を上げてはどうだろう ナノサイエンスの分野では  
 There's some new technology breakthroughs  when applied to magnetic structures  that have created a whole new class of magnets,  and with these magnets, we can lay down  very fine detailed magnetic field patterns  throughout the brain,  and using those, we can actually create  holographic-like interference structures  to get precision control over many patterns,  as is shown here by shifting things. We can create much more complicated structures  with slightly different arrangements,    	  次々に技術革新が起きていて 磁気構造に応用すると まったく新しい磁石が作れます このような磁石を使うと 脳全体の詳細な磁場のパターンを 捉えられます この磁場パターンを使うと ホログラフィのように 干渉構造を描き出せます そして それをずらしていけば 様々なパターンを 精密に制御できるのです 少し配置を変えると より複雑な構造を 描くこともできます  
 kind of like making Spirograph.    	  歯車を回して模様を描く おもちゃのようにです  
 So why does that matter?    	  では なぜこれが重要なのか？  
 A lot of effort in MRI over the years  has gone into making really big,  really huge magnets, right?    	  MRIを改良する試みは 長年 磁石を巨大化する方向に 進んできました  
 But yet most of the recent advances  in resolution have actually come from  ingeniously clever encoding and decoding solutions  in the F.M. radio frequency transmitters and receivers  in the MRI systems.    	  一方 近年 解像度が向上した理由は MRIシステムの内部にある ― FM電波の送受信機における 符号化と復号化の方法が 革新を遂げたためです  
 Let's also, instead of a uniform magnetic field,  put down structured magnetic patterns  in addition to the F.M. radio frequencies.    	  また均一な磁場を使う代わりに 構造化した磁気パターンと FM電波を組み合わせて 使ってみましょう  
 So by combining the magnetics patterns  with the patterns in the F.M. radio frequencies  processing which can massively increase  the information that we can extract  in a single scan.    	  磁気パターンとFM電波の 周波数パターンの処理を 組み合わせることで 一回のスキャンで 抽出できる情報が 飛躍的に増加します  
 And on top of that, we can then layer  our ever-growing knowledge of brain structure and memory  to create a thousandfold increase that we need.    	  こうして得た情報に 急速に進展する脳の構造や 記憶に関する知識を組み合わせることで 必要な千倍の解像度が 得られるのです  
 And using fMRI, we should be able to measure not just oxygenated blood flow,  but the hormones and neurotransmitters I've talked about  and maybe even the direct neural activity,  which is the dream.    	  fMRIを使えば 酸素を含む血流の量だけでなく ホルモンや神経伝達物質 ― 神経活動までもが 直接 測定可能になるでしょう これが実現したい夢です  
 We're going to be able to dump our ideas  directly to digital media.    	  私達は自分のアイデアを 直接デジタル・メディアに 書き込めるようになるでしょう  
 Could you imagine if we could leapfrog language  and communicate directly with human thought?    	  言語を介さずに 直接 思考を使って コミュニケーションをとる姿を 想像できますか？  
 What would we be capable of then?    	  その時 何が 可能になるのでしょう？  
 And how will we learn to deal  with the truths of unfiltered human thought?    	  私達は どうやって 生の思考を扱う方法を 学んでいくのでしょう？  
 You think the Internet was big.    	  インターネットは 大きな意味を持つでしょう  
 These are huge questions.    	  これは大きな課題です  
 It might be irresistible as a tool  to amplify our thinking and communication skills.    	  思考やコミュニケーション能力を 拡張するために不可欠の 手段となるかもしれません  
 And indeed, this very same tool  may prove to lead to the cure  for Alzheimer's and similar diseases.    	  実際に このツールこそが アルツハイマー病などを 治療する鍵に なるかもしれません  
 We have little option but to open this door.    	  私達は この方向に 進むほかありません  
 Regardless, pick a year --  will it happen in five years or 15 years?    	  何年かかるかは 関係ありません ５年後か15年後か？  
 It's hard to imagine it taking much longer.    	  でも そんなに時間が かかるとは思えません  
 We need to learn how to take this step together.    	  皆で この道を進む方法を 探るしかないのです  
 Thank you.    	  ありがとうございました  
 I'm going to talk to you tonight  about coming out of the closet,  and not in the traditional sense,  not just the gay closet.    	  今晩 お話しするのは カミングアウトについてです いわゆる「カミングアウト」 ゲイだと打ち明けること ではありません  
 I think we all have closets.    	  誰しも 心に 壁を作っています  
 Your closet may be telling someone  you love her for the first time,  or telling someone that you're pregnant,  or telling someone you have cancer,  or any of the other hard conversations  we have throughout our lives.    	  その後ろに 隠れているのは 誰かに初めて 愛の告白をすることや 妊娠したこと ガンであることを 伝えることかもしれません 他にも 私たちが 人生で経験する― さまざまな重い話が 隠れています  
 All a closet is is a hard conversation,  and although our topics may vary tremendously,  the experience of being in  and coming out of the closet is universal.    	  心の壁の向こうにあるのは 重い話です 抱える問題は 本当に さまざまでしょう でも 心に 押し込めていたものを 扉を開けて解き放つ経験は 誰しも同じです  
 It is scary, and we hate it, and it needs to be done.    	  怖いですし 嫌ですが しないといけないことです  
 Several years ago,  I was working at the South Side Walnut Cafe,  a local diner in town,  and during my time there I would go through phases  of militant lesbian intensity:  not shaving my armpits,  quoting Ani DiFranco lyrics as gospel.    	  数年前 私は サウス・サイド・ ウォールナット・カフェという 地元の食堂で 働いていました その食堂で 私は さまざまな段階を経て 過激派レズビアンに なりました 脇の処理をせず アーニー・ディフランコの 言葉を崇めました  
 And depending on the bagginess of my cargo shorts  and how recently I had shaved my head,  the question would often be sprung on me,  usually by a little kid:  "Um, are you a boy or are you a girl?"    	  だぶだぶの カーゴパンツで 頭を剃って すぐのときには こんな質問を よくされました たいていは 小さな子どもからで 「あのー あなたは男の子？ それとも女の子？」  
 And there would be an awkward silence at the table.    	  その場は ぎこちない沈黙に包まれ  
 I'd clench my jaw a little tighter,  hold my coffee pot with a little more vengeance.    	  私は いつもより少しだけ固く 歯をかみしめ コーヒーポットを ここぞとばかりに 強く握りしめました  
 The dad would awkwardly shuffle his newspaper  and the mom would shoot a chilling stare at her kid.    	  父親は あたふたと 新聞をめくり 母親は その子を ダメよという目で見ます  
 But I would say nothing,  and I would seethe inside.    	  それでも 私は何も言いませんでした ただ 心の中で 激しい感情が渦巻いていました  
 And it got to the point where every time I walked up  to a table that had a kid anywhere between three and 10 years old, I was ready to fight.    	  そのうち ３～10歳の子どもがいる― テーブルへは 戦闘態勢で 臨むようになりました  
   And that is a terrible feeling.    	   最悪の気分です  
 So I promised myself, the next time, I would say something.    	  ですから 次こそは 何か言うぞと心に決めたのです  
 I would have that hard conversation.    	  あの重い会話を すると決めたのです  
 So within a matter of weeks, it happens again.    	  何週間も経たないうちに そのときが やってきました  
 "Are you a boy or are you a girl?"    	  「あなたは男の子？ それとも女の子？」  
 Familiar silence, but this time I'm ready,  and I am about to go all Women's Studies 101  on this table.   I've got my Betty Friedan quotes.    	  あの沈黙が訪れます でも 心の準備はできていました 私は まさに 女性学入門の講義を 始めんばかりの 勢いでした ベティ・フリーダンの言葉も  
 I've got my Gloria Steinem quotes.    	  グロリア・スタイネムの言葉も  
 I've even got this little bit from "Vagina Monologues" I'm going to do.    	  さらには『ヴァギナ・モノローグス』からの 引用も用意していました  
 So I take a deep breath and I look down  and staring back at me is a four-year-old girl in a pink dress,  not a challenge to a feminist duel,  just a kid with a question:  "Are you a boy or are you a girl?"    	  深呼吸をして 声の方を見ると 私を見上げていたのは ピンクのドレスを着た４歳の少女でした フェミニストの決闘相手に ふさわしくない ただの子どもが 知りたがっているだけ 「あなたは男の子？ それとも女の子？」  
 So I take another deep breath,  squat down to next to her, and say,  "Hey, I know it's kind of confusing.    	  もう一度 深呼吸をして そばに しゃがんで 言いました 「ねぇ 困るわよね 分かるわ  
 My hair is short like a boy's,  and I wear boy's clothes, but I'm a girl,  and you know how sometimes you like to wear a pink dress,  and sometimes you like to wear your comfy jammies?    	  髪も短くて 男の子みたいだし 服装も男の子っぽいわね でも 女の子よ あなたも ピンクの服を 着たい時もあれば ゆったりしたパジャマを 着たい時だってあるでしょ  
 Well, I'm more of a comfy jammies kind of girl."    	  私はね パジャマ好きな女の子なのよ」  
 And this kid looks me dead in the eye,  without missing a beat, and says,  "My favorite pajamas are purple with fish.    	  その子は 私の目を まっすぐ見て ひるむ様子もなく 言ったのです 「私はお魚さんがついた 紫のパジャマが好きよ  
 Can I get a pancake, please?"    	  パンケーキを もらえますか？」  
   And that was it. Just, "Oh, okay. You're a girl.    	   それだけでした 「そう 女の子なんだ  
 How about that pancake?"    	  あのパンケーキを お願いね」って  
 It was the easiest hard conversation  I have ever had.    	  あれほど軽く 重い話をしたのは 初めてでした  
 And why? Because Pancake Girl and I,  we were both real with each other.    	  なぜでしょう？ パンケーキの子と私は お互いに 本心でぶつかり合ったからです  
 So like many of us,  I've lived in a few closets in my life, and yeah,  most often, my walls happened to be rainbow.    	  皆さんも そうだと思いますが 私も いろんな思いを 壁の奥に押し込めてきました たいてい 私の壁は 虹色をしていましたが  
 But inside, in the dark,  you can't tell what color the walls are.    	  一歩中に入れば 暗闇で 壁の色も分かりません  
 You just know what it feels like to live in a closet.    	  暗闇で 息をひそめて生きることが どんなものか分かるでしょう  
 So really, my closet is no different than yours  or yours or yours.    	  結局 壁の後ろにある世界は 同じなのです―あなたのも あなたのも 一緒です  
 Sure, I'll give you 100 reasons  why coming out of my closet was harder than coming out of yours,  but here's the thing: Hard is not relative.    	  もちろん 私の方が あなたよりも つらい理由なんて いくらでも あげられます でも つらさは 相対的なものではありません  
 Hard is hard.    	  つらいものは つらいんです  
 Who can tell me that explaining to someone you've just declared bankruptcy  is harder than telling someone you just cheated on them?    	  自己破産をしたことを 告白する方が 浮気を告白するより つらいなんて言えますか？  
 Who can tell me that his coming out story  is harder than telling your five-year-old you're getting a divorce?    	  あの人が 打ち明けることの方が ５歳の子どもに離婚を話すより つらいと言えるでしょうか？  
 There is no harder, there is just hard.    	  どちらが つらいかではなく ただ つらいんです  
 We need to stop ranking our hard against everyone else's hard  to make us feel better or worse about our closets  and just commiserate on the fact that we all have hard.    	  つらさを他人と比べるのは やめないといけません 他人と比較して 安心したり落胆したりするのでなく ただ皆 つらいんだと 気持ちを寄せるのです  
 At some point in our lives, we all live in closets,  and they may feel safe,  or at least safer than what lies on the other side of that door.    	  長い人生 誰しも 心に壁を作ることがあります その中にいれば 安全と感じるでしょう 少なくとも 扉の向こうよりマシでしょう  
 But I am here to tell you,  no matter what your walls are made of,  a closet is no place for a person to live.    	  でも 皆さんに お伝えしたいのは その壁が 何でできていようとも そこは 人が 生きる場所ではありません  
 Thanks.   So imagine yourself 20 years ago.    	  ありがとう（拍手） 20年前の自分を 思い浮かべてみてください  
 Me, I had a ponytail, a strapless dress,  and high-heeled shoes.    	  当時 私はポニーテールで ストラップレスドレスを着て ハイヒールを 身に付けていました  
 I was not the militant lesbian  ready to fight any four-year-old that walked into the cafe.    	  当時は 過激派 レズビアンではなく カフェにいた４歳児に 立ち向かう用意もありませんでした  
 I was frozen by fear, curled up in the corner  of my pitch-black closet  clutching my gay grenade,  and moving one muscle is the scariest thing  I have ever done.    	  私は恐怖で凍りつき 壁に囲まれた真っ暗闇の中 隅っこで 丸まっていました ゲイという手りゅう弾を 手に握りしめ 筋肉をちょっと 動かすのでさえ 今までにないくらい 恐ろしく感じていました  
 My family, my friends, complete strangers --  I had spent my entire life  trying to not disappoint these people,  and now I was turning the world upside down  on purpose.    	  私の家族 友人 見ず知らずの他人― 私は こうした人たちの 期待に応えるべく 生きてきました でも 今は自ら 世界をひっくり返しています わざとです  
 I was burning the pages of the script  we had all followed for so long,  but if you do not throw that grenade, it will kill you.    	  長い間 私たちが 従ってきた筋書きを すべて破り捨てて いるのです 自分の手にある手りゅう弾を 捨てなければ 死んでしまいますから  
 One of my most memorable grenade tosses  was at my sister's wedding.    	  手りゅう弾を手放した中で 最高だったのが 姉の結婚式での 手りゅう弾トスです  
   It was the first time that many in attendance  knew I was gay, so in doing my maid of honor duties,  in my black dress and heels,  I walked around to tables  and finally landed on a table of my parents' friends,  And after a little small talk, one of the women shouted out,  "I love Nathan Lane!"    	   私がゲイだと知っている方が たくさん集まるのは 初めてだったので 花嫁の付き添いをしながら 黒いドレスで ヒールを履いたまま 各テーブルを まわったのです ついに 私のことを 長年知っている― 両親の友人たちのテーブルに 行きつきました 世間話のあと ある女性が大声で言いました 「私は ネイサン・レインが好きよ」と  
 And the battle of gay relatability had begun.    	  すると皆が 親ゲイ派を アピールし出しました  
 "Ash, have you ever been to the Castro?"    	  「ゲイタウンのカストロ通りは 行った？」  
 "Well, yeah, actually, we have friends in San Francisco."    	  「実はサンフランシスコに 友だちがいるのよ」  
 "Well, we've never been there but we've heard it's fabulous."    	  「行ったことがないけど 素晴らしいと聞いたわ」  
 "Ash, do you know my hairdresser Antonio?    	  「美容師のアントニオは 知ってるかしら？  
 He's really good and he has never talked about a girlfriend."    	  腕は確かだし 彼女の話なんてしないのよ」  
 "Ash, what's your favorite TV show?    	  「好きなテレビ番組は？  
 Our favorite TV show? Favorite: Will & Grace.    	  私たちは『ふたりは友達？ ウィル&グレイス』ね  
 And you know who we love? Jack.    	  誰が好きかって？ ジャックよ  
 Jack is our favorite."    	  ジャックが お気に入りなの」  
 And then one woman, stumped  but wanting so desperately to show her support,  to let me know she was on my side,  she finally blurted out,  "Well, sometimes my husband wears pink shirts."    	  ある女性は 言葉に詰まって 困っていましたが それでも なんとか応援したいと思い 私の味方だと 伝えようとして ようやく 出てきた言葉が― 「ほら 私の夫も 時々 ピンクのシャツを着るわよ」  
   And I had a choice in that moment,  as all grenade throwers do.    	   そのとき 私には ２つの選択肢がありました 手りゅう弾を放り出す誰もが 必ず通る道です  
 I could go back to my girlfriend and my gay-loving table  and mock their responses,  chastise their unworldliness and their inability  to jump through the politically correct gay hoops I had brought with me,  or I could empathize with them  and realize that that was maybe one of the hardest things they had ever done,  that starting and having that conversation  was them coming out of their closets.    	  一つは そのまま 彼女やゲイ仲間がいるテーブルに戻り 今の出来事を バカにすることです 世間知らずで ゲイについて差別・偏見なく 話すこともできないのか と非難することもできます もう一つの選択肢は 彼らに共感して きっとこれまで体験した中でも 大変なことだったに違いない この話題を取り上げ 会話をすることで 彼らも心の壁を破ったんだ と理解することです  
 Sure, it would have been easy to point out where they felt short.    	  もちろん 他人の至らなさを 指摘することは簡単ですが  
 It's a lot harder to meet them where they are  and acknowledge the fact that they were trying.    	  彼らの立場に立ち 努力したという事実を 認めることは 実際 本当に難しいことです  
 And what else can you ask someone to do but try?    	  結局 他人に求められるのは 努力だけでしょう  
 If you're going to be real with someone,  you gotta be ready for real in return.    	  他人と 本気で 向き合うなら 自分をさらけ出さないと いけません  
 So hard conversations are still not my strong suit.    	  重い会話は まだ苦手です  
 Ask anybody I have ever dated.    	  私が付き合った人に 聞けば分かります  
 But I'm getting better, and I follow what I like to call  the three Pancake Girl principles.    	  でも マシになってはいます 私が大事にしているのは 「パンケーキ少女の３原則」です  
 Now, please view this through gay-colored lenses,  but know what it takes to come out of any closet  is essentially the same.    	  これからお話しすることは ゲイの立場でのことですが どんな心の壁を 破るのでも 結局は 同じなんです  
 Number one: Be authentic.    	  第一の原則は ありのままであること  
 Take the armor off. Be yourself.    	  鎧をかなぐり捨て 素の自分になります  
 That kid in the cafe had no armor,  but I was ready for battle.    	  カフェの あの子は 丸腰だったのに 私だけが 戦闘態勢だったんです  
 If you want someone to be real with you,  they need to know that you bleed too.    	  誰かに本気で 向き合ってほしいなら あなたも 血の通った人間だと 知ってもらうべきです  
 Number two: Be direct. Just say it. Rip the Band-Aid off.    	  第二の原則は 単刀直入に言うこと 絆創膏は一気に剥ぎ取るのです  
 If you know you are gay, just say it.    	  ゲイなのであれば はっきり そう言えばいいんです  
 If you tell your parents you might be gay,  they will hold out hope that this will change.    	  親に「ゲイかもしれない」と言えば 何かの間違いかもと 希望を持たせます  
 Do not give them that sense of false hope.    	  そんな変な期待は させてはいけません  
   And number three, and most important --    Be unapologetic.    	   第三の原則は 最も重要なものです―  申し訳なく 思わないことです  
 You are speaking your truth.    	  あなたは 真実を話しているだけ  
 Never apologize for that.    	  謝る必要なんか ちっともありません  
 And some folks may have gotten hurt along the way,  so sure, apologize for what you've done,  but never apologize for who you are.    	  もしかしたら これで 傷つく人もいるかもしれません もちろん 自分がしたことは 謝るべきです でも 自分が悪いと 思う必要はありません  
 And yeah, some folks may be disappointed,  but that is on them, not on you.    	  そうですね がっかりする人もいますね でも それは彼らの問題で あなたの問題ではありません  
 Those are their expectations of who you are, not yours.    	  あなたに対する 勝手な期待ですから  
 That is their story, not yours.    	  彼らの筋書きで あなたのものではありません  
 The only story that matters  is the one that you want to write.    	  大事な筋書きは ただ一つです あなたが書きたい その筋書きだけです  
 So the next time you find yourself  in a pitch-black closet clutching your grenade,  know we have all been there before.    	  もしも 自分が 心の真っ暗闇にいて 手りゅう弾を握りしめているのに 気づいたら 皆が経験することだと 思ってください  
 And you may feel so very alone, but you are not.    	  孤独に感じるかもしれないけれど 決して一人ではありません  
 And we know it's hard but we need you out here,  no matter what your walls are made of,  because I guarantee you there are others  peering through the keyholes of their closets  looking for the next brave soul to bust a door open, so be that person  and show the world that we are bigger than our closets  and that a closet is no place for a person  to truly live.    	  つらいでしょうが 皆 あなたを必要としています どんな壁であれ 突き破らないといけません 皆 心の壁の 後ろに隠れて 鍵穴から 外をのぞいています 誰かが 扉を破るのを待っています だから 勇気を出して踏み出し 世界に見せつけてください 私たちには もっと大きな価値があり そして そんな壁の中では 誰も 真の意味で 生きることは できないのだと  
 Thank you, Boulder. Enjoy your night.     	  ありがとうございます 素敵な夜を （拍手）  
 Intelligence -- what is it?    	  知能とは何でしょうか？  
 If we take a look back at the history  of how intelligence has been viewed,  one seminal example has been  Edsger Dijkstra's famous quote that  "the question of whether a machine can think  is about as interesting  as the question of whether a submarine  can swim."    	  知能に関する議論について 歴史を振り返ってみると エドガー・ダイクストラの 有名な言葉につきあたります エドガー・ダイクストラの 有名な言葉につきあたります “機械が考えることができるのか という問いはー “機械が考えることができるのか という問いはー 潜水艦が泳ぐことができるか という問いと 同じくらい興味深い” 潜水艦が泳ぐことができるか という問いと 同じくらい興味深い”  
 Now, Edsger Dijkstra, when he wrote this,  intended it as a criticism  of the early pioneers of computer science,  like Alan Turing. However, if you take a look back  and think about what have been  that enabled us to build  artificial machines that swim  and artificial machines that [fly],  you find that it was only through understanding  the underlying physical mechanisms  of swimming and flight  that we were able to build these machines.    	  エドガー・ダイクストラのこの言葉は アラン・チューリングなど コンピュータ科学の先駆者達への 批判から出たものです コンピュータ科学の先駆者達への 批判から出たものです コンピュータ科学の先駆者達への 批判から出たものです しかし考えてみるとー しかし考えてみるとー “泳ぐ機械”や“飛ぶ機械”を作ることができたー “泳ぐ機械”や“飛ぶ機械”を作ることができたー 最大の原動力とは何なのでしょうか？ 最大の原動力とは何なのでしょうか？ 単に泳ぎや飛行の物理的原理を 理解することによって 単に泳ぎや飛行の物理的原理を 理解することによって 単に泳ぎや飛行の物理的原理を 理解することによって このような機械を 作ることができたのです  
 And so, several years ago,  I undertook a program to try to understand  the fundamental physical mechanisms underlying intelligence.    	  数年前 私が行った研究はー 数年前 私が行った研究はー 知能における物理的な基本原理を 解明することでした 知能における物理的な基本原理を 解明することでした  
 Let's take a step back.    	  その前に ある思考実験をしたいと思います  
 Let's first begin with a thought experiment.    	  その前に ある思考実験をしたいと思います  
 Pretend that you're an alien race  that doesn't know anything about Earth biology  or Earth neuroscience or Earth intelligence,  but you have amazing telescopes  and you're able to watch the Earth,  and you have amazingly long lives,  so you're able to watch the Earth  over millions, even billions of years.    	  自分が地球のことを何も知らない エイリアンだと思ってください 自分が地球のことを何も知らない エイリアンだと思ってください 生物学や神経学 知能について何も知りません しかし高性能な望遠鏡で 地球を観察することができ しかし高性能な望遠鏡で 地球を観察することができ かなり長生きなので 何百万年 いや 何十億年も地球を観察できるとします かなり長生きなので 何百万年 いや 何十億年も地球を観察できるとします かなり長生きなので 何百万年 いや 何十億年も地球を観察できるとします  
 And you observe a really strange effect.    	  すると変わったものを 見ることになります  
 You observe that, over the course of the millennia,  Earth is continually bombarded with asteroids  up until a point,  and that at some point,  corresponding roughly to our year, 2000 AD,  asteroids that are on  a collision course with the Earth  that otherwise would have collided mysteriously get deflected  or they detonate before they can hit the Earth.    	  千年も観察しているとー 地球に常に 隕石が衝突していることがわかります 地球に常に 隕石が衝突していることがわかります しかし紀元2000年頃になるとー しかし紀元2000年頃になるとー 不思議なことに 地球に衝突するはずの隕石はー 不思議なことに 地球に衝突するはずの隕石はー 衝突前に進路を変えたり 爆発してしまうのです 衝突前に進路を変えたり 爆発してしまうのです  
 Now of course, as earthlings,  we know the reason would be  that we're trying to save ourselves.    	  衝突前に進路を変えたり 爆発してしまうのです もちろん地球人は その理由は 自らを守ろうとしている事であると― もちろん地球人は その理由は 自らを守ろうとしている事であると―  
 We're trying to prevent an impact.    	  知っています 衝突を防ごうとしているのです  
 But if you're an alien race  who doesn't know any of this,  doesn't have any concept of Earth intelligence,  you'd be forced to put together  a physical theory that explains how,  up until a certain point in time,  asteroids that would demolish the surface of a planet  mysteriously stop doing that.    	  しかしエイリアンであるあなたは そんなことは いざ知らず 地球の知的生命体の存在について 考えも及ばず なぜ隕石がある時期から 地球に衝突しなくなる― なぜ隕石がある時期から 地球に衝突しなくなる― 神秘的なできごとについて 物理的な理論を考えるしかありません 物理的な理論を考えるしかありません  
 And so I claim that this is the same question  as understanding the physical nature of intelligence.    	  これは知能の物理的本質を 理解することと同じ問題なのです これは知能の物理的本質を 理解することと同じ問題なのです  
 So in this program that I undertook several years ago,  I looked at a variety of different threads  across science, across a variety of disciplines,  that were pointing, I think,  towards a single, underlying mechanism  for intelligence.    	  そこで 数年前に行った研究では 知能の統一的な原理を指し示す 科学の多くの分野に目を向けました 知能の統一的な原理を指し示す 科学の多くの分野に目を向けました 知能の統一的な原理を指し示す 科学の多くの分野に目を向けました 知能の統一的な原理を指し示す 科学の多くの分野に目を向けました 知能の統一的な原理を指し示す 科学の多くの分野に目を向けました  
 In cosmology, for example,  there have been a variety of different threads of evidence  that our universe appears to be finely tuned  for the development of intelligence,  and, in particular, for the development  of universal states  that maximize the diversity of possible futures.    	  例えば宇宙論では 様々な証拠により 例えば宇宙論では 様々な証拠により この宇宙は 知能が発達し この宇宙は 知能が発達し 特に宇宙の将来の多様性が 最大化するようにー うまく調整されていると 示されています うまく調整されていると 示されています  
 In game play, for example, in Go --  when IBM's Deep Blue beat Garry Kasparov at chess --  fewer people are aware  that in the past 10 years or so,  the game of Go, arguably a much more challenging game  because it has a much higher branching factor,  has also started to succumb to computer game players  for the same reason:  the best techniques right now for computers playing Go  are techniques that try to maximize future options    	  例えばゲームの碁を見てみましょう だれでも チェスでIBMのディープブルーが 1997年にカスパロフを破ったことを覚えていますが あまり良く知られていないことは 最近の10年間において 分岐因子が非常に多くチェスよりも はるかに難しいゲームである 分岐因子が非常に多くチェスよりも はるかに難しいゲームである 碁においてもコンピュータが 対戦する人間に 同様な理由で勝ち始めたことです 同様な理由で勝ち始めたことです 同様な理由で勝ち始めたことです 現状ではコンピュータにとっての 最善の方法は 将来の選択肢を最大にすることなのです  
 during game play.    	  将来の選択肢を最大にすることなのです  
 Finally, in robotic motion planning,  there have been a variety of recent techniques  that have tried to take advantage  of abilities of robots to maximize future freedom of action  in order to accomplish complex tasks.    	  最後の例として ロボットの動作プログラムでは 複雑な仕事を達成するためー 行動の自由度を最大化する能力を 利用しようとする最新技法があります 行動の自由度を最大化する能力を 利用しようとする最新技法があります 行動の自由度を最大化する能力を 利用しようとする最新技法があります 数年前から問い続けてきたことですが  
 And so, taking all of these different threads  and putting them together, I asked, starting several years ago,  is there an underlying mechanism for intelligence  that we can factor out  of all of these different threads?    	  異なる分野を総合的に考えることで 知能の背後にある原理は 見えてくるのでしょうか？ 知能の背後にある原理は 見えてくるのでしょうか？ 知能の背後にある原理は 見えてくるのでしょうか？ 知能の背後にある原理は 見えてくるのでしょうか？  
 Is there a single equation for intelligence?    	  統一的な公式は存在するのでしょうか？  
 And the answer, I believe, is yes. ["F = T ∇ Sτ"]  What you're seeing is probably  the closest equivalent to an E = mc²  for intelligence that I've seen.    	  私の答えはイエスです [F = T ∇ Sτ] E = mc²とよく似ていますが これは知能の公式です E = mc²とよく似ていますが これは知能の公式です E = mc²とよく似ていますが これは知能の公式です  
 So what you're seeing here  is a statement of correspondence  that intelligence is a force, F,  that acts so as to maximize future freedom of action.    	  それぞれ何を表しているかというと それぞれ何を表しているかというと Fが知能 未来の自由度を最大にする力です Fが知能 未来の自由度を最大にする力です  
 It acts to maximize future freedom of action,  or keep options open,  with some strength T,  with the diversity of possible accessible futures, S,  up to some future time horizon, tau.    	  未来の自由度を最大にし 選択肢を広げる際に働くのがー 強度T そして ある時間タウτまでに 強度T そして ある時間タウτまでに 到達可能な未来の多様性がSです 到達可能な未来の多様性がSです  
 In short, intelligence doesn't like to get trapped.    	  要は知能は留まっているのが 嫌いだということです  
 Intelligence tries to maximize future freedom of action  and keep options open.    	  知能は未来の自由度を最大にし 選択肢を広げ続けます 知能は未来の自由度を最大にし 選択肢を広げ続けます  
 And so, given this one equation,  it's natural to ask, so what can you do with this?    	  しかし 自然な疑問が湧いてきます この式をどう使うのか? 何が予測できるのでしょうか？  
 How predictive is it?    	  この式をどう使うのか? 何が予測できるのでしょうか？  
 Does it predict human-level intelligence?    	  人間の知能レベル？ 人工知能の進歩予測？  
 Does it predict artificial intelligence?    	  人間の知能レベル？ 人工知能の進歩予測？  
 So I'm going to show you now a video  that will, I think, demonstrate  some of the amazing applications of just this single equation.    	  これからビデオをお見せします これからビデオをお見せします このたった一つの式に様々な 素晴らしい応用があることを 示します  
  Narrator: Recent research in cosmology  has suggested that universes that produce  more disorder, or "entropy," over their lifetimes  should tend to have more favorable conditions  for the existence of intelligent beings such as ourselves.    	  宇宙論における最新の研究によると “エントロピー”つまり乱雑さを 増大させる宇宙はー “エントロピー”つまり乱雑さを 増大させる宇宙はー 知的生命体が存在するのに 最適な状態へと方向付けられています 知的生命体が存在するのに 最適な状態へと方向付けられています  
 But what if that tentative cosmological connection  between entropy and intelligence  hints at a deeper relationship?    	  しかし宇宙論的な意味で エントロピーと知能の間に しかし宇宙論的な意味で エントロピーと知能の間に 深いレベルで関係があるとしたら？  
 What if intelligent behavior doesn't just correlate  with the production of long-term entropy,  but actually emerges directly from it?    	  知的行動は長期的なエントロピーの 増加と関係があるだけでなく 知的行動は長期的なエントロピーの 増加と関係があるだけでなく エントロピーそのものから 発生しているとしたら？  
 To find out, we developed a software engine  called Entropica, designed to maximize  the production of long-term entropy  of any system that it finds itself in.    	  それを確かめるために開発したのが エントロピカというソフトです それを確かめるために開発したのが エントロピカというソフトです 長期的エントロピーの増加を 最大化するように設計されています 驚いたことにエントロピカは 指示がなくても  
 Amazingly, Entropica was able to pass  multiple animal intelligence tests, play human games,  and even earn money trading stocks, all without being instructed to do so.    	  様々な動物知能テストをクリアし 人間が行うようなゲーム 様々な動物知能テストをクリアし 人間が行うようなゲーム さらには 株の取引きすらできたのです  
 Here are some examples of Entropica in action.    	  エントロピカの行動を見てください  
 Just like a human standing upright without falling over,  here we see Entropica  automatically balancing a pole using a cart.    	  倒れることなく 人間のように直立二足歩行をし ご覧のようにカートを使って ポールのバランスを取ろうとします カートを使って ポールのバランスを取ろうとします  
 This behavior is remarkable in part  because we never gave Entropica a goal.    	  驚くべきことの一つは エントロピカに― 目的を与えていないのに この様に行動することです  
 It simply decided on its own to balance the pole.    	  自分で判断し ポールのバランスを取ります  
 This balancing ability will have appliactions  for humanoid robotics  and human assistive technologies.    	  こうした能力はヒューマノイドや 障害者のための支援技術に応用できます こうした能力はヒューマノイドや 障害者のための支援技術に応用できます こうした能力はヒューマノイドや 障害者のための支援技術に応用できます  
 Just as some animals can use objects  in their environments as tools  to reach into narrow spaces,  here we see that Entropica,  again on its own initiative,  was able to move a large disk representing an animal  around so as to cause a small disk,  representing a tool, to reach into a confined space  holding a third disk  and release the third disk from its initially fixed position.    	  一部の動物は手の届かない所に 道具を使いますが 一部の動物は手の届かない所に 道具を使いますが 一部の動物は手の届かない所に 道具を使いますが エントロピカの場合を見てみましょう エントロピカの場合を見てみましょう 動物を表す大きなディスクを動かし 道具を表す小さなディスクを 狭い場所に動かすことができました 道具を表す小さなディスクを 狭い場所に動かすことができました もう一枚のディスクは 元の位置から解放させます もう一枚のディスクは 元の位置から解放させます  
 This tool use ability will have applications  for smart manufacturing and agriculture.    	  こうした道具を使う能力は 製造業や農業に応用できます こうした道具を使う能力は 製造業や農業に応用できます  
 In addition, just as some other animals  are able to cooperate by pulling opposite ends of a rope  at the same time to release food,  here we see that Entropica is able to accomplish  a model version of that task.    	  また エサをとるため協力して ロープの端を引っ張る動物もいます また エサをとるため協力して ロープの端を引っ張る動物もいます また エサをとるため協力して ロープの端を引っ張る動物もいます エントロピカもモデルにおいて この課題をクリアできました エントロピカもモデルにおいて この課題をクリアできました  
 This cooperative ability has interesting implications  for economic planning and a variety of other fields.    	  こうした協力する能力は 経済計画など多くの分野に応用できます こうした協力する能力は 経済計画など多くの分野に応用できます  
 Entropica is broadly applicable  to a variety of domains.    	  エントロピカは様々な分野に 広く応用できるのです エントロピカは様々な分野に 広く応用できるのです  
 For example, here we see it successfully  playing a game of pong against itself,  illustrating its potential for gaming.    	  例えばポンというゲームを 自分だけで見事にプレイしており 例えばポンというゲームを 自分だけで見事にプレイしており ゲームを遂行する能力を 示しています  
 Here we see Entropica orchestrating  new connections on a social network  where friends are constantly falling out of touch  and successfully keeping the network well connected.    	  また つながりを常に失いがちな ソーシャルネットワークにおいて また つながりを常に失いがちな ソーシャルネットワークにおいて エントロピカは新しい関係を 上手く築いていきます エントロピカは新しい関係を 上手く築いていきます  
 This same network orchestration ability  also has applications in health care,  energy, and intelligence. Here we see Entropica directing the paths  of a fleet of ships,  successfully discovering and utilizing the Panama Canal  to globally extend its reach from the Atlantic to the Pacific.    	  このネットワークの組織能力は ヘルスケアやエネルギー 知能の分野にも応用できます ヘルスケアやエネルギー 知能の分野にも応用できます 船の一群がパナマ運河を発見し 船の一群がパナマ運河を発見し 大西洋から太平洋へと 活動範囲を広げる様子も  
 By the same token, Entropica is broadly applicable to problems  in autonomous defense, logistics and transportation.    	  大西洋から太平洋へと 活動範囲を広げる様子も 再現しています エントロピカは 自主防衛 物流 運送などにも応用できます  
 Finally, here we see Entropica  spontaneously discovering and executing  a buy-low, sell-high strategy  on a simulated range traded stock,  successfully growing assets under management  exponentially. This risk management ability  will have broad applications in finance  and insurance.    	  エントロピカは 自主防衛 物流 運送などにも応用できます エントロピカは 自主防衛 物流 運送などにも応用できます 最後の例ですが 株取引で 安く買って高く売る戦略を 最後の例ですが 株取引で 安く買って高く売る戦略を 直ちに発見し シミュレーションの 条件内でこれを実行し 管理可能なやり方で 資産を一気に 増やすことができるのです 管理可能なやり方で 資産を一気に 増やすことができるのです こうしたリスク管理能力は 経済や保険の分野に広く応用できます こうしたリスク管理能力は 経済や保険の分野に広く応用できます こうしたリスク管理能力は 経済や保険の分野に広く応用できます  
 Alex Wissner-Gross: So what you've just seen  is that a variety of signature human intelligent  cognitive behaviors  such as tool use and walking upright  and social cooperation  all follow from a single equation,  which drives a system to maximize its future freedom of action.    	  これまで見てきたのは 人間の知能的な認知行動です これまで見てきたのは 人間の知能的な認知行動です これまで見てきたのは 人間の知能的な認知行動です 道具の使用や直立二足歩行 社会的協力といったものです 道具の使用や直立二足歩行 社会的協力といったものです これらは全てー 未来の行動の自由度を最大にする 一つの式から導かれます 未来の行動の自由度を最大にする 一つの式から導かれます  
 Now, there's a profound irony here.    	  ここでとても皮肉なのが  
 Going back to the beginning  of the usage of the term robot,  the play "RUR,"  there was always a concept  that if we developed machine intelligence,  there would be a cybernetic revolt.    	  ロボットという言葉を始めて使用した 戯曲“RUR”ではー ロボットという言葉を始めて使用した 戯曲“RUR”ではー ロボットという言葉を始めて使用した 戯曲“RUR”ではー “もし知能を持つ機械を作ったとしたら ロボットの反乱が起こるだろう” “もし知能を持つ機械を作ったとしたら ロボットの反乱が起こるだろう” というコンセプトがありました  
 The machines would rise up against us.    	  機械が私達に敵対し 立ち上がるというのです  
 One major consequence of this work  is that maybe all of these decades,  we've had the whole concept of cybernetic revolt  in reverse.    	  ここ数十年における 我々の研究の主な成果として ロボットによる反乱について 全く逆の結果が得られたのです  
 It's not that machines first become intelligent  and then megalomaniacal and try to take over the world.    	  なにも知能を持った機械がー 誇大妄想で世界を支配しようと するわけではありません 誇大妄想で世界を支配しようと するわけではありません  
 It's quite the opposite,  that the urge to take control  of all possible futures  is a more fundamental principle  than that of intelligence,  that general intelligence may in fact emerge  directly from this sort of control-grabbing,  rather than vice versa.    	  全くの逆でー 未来の全ての可能性を コントロールする自然の原理は― 未来の全ての可能性を コントロールする自然の原理は― 知能よりも基本的で 知能よりも基本的で 可能性をコントロールしようとする 自然の原理により 知性というものが発生するのであり その逆ではないのでしょう  
 Another important consequence is goal seeking.    	  もう一つの重要な結果がゴールシークです  
 I'm often asked, how does the ability to seek goals  follow from this sort of framework?    	  よく質問されることですが 目標を探す能力が この原理に どのように従っているのでしょう  
 And the answer is, the ability to seek goals  will follow directly from this  in the following sense: just like you would travel through a tunnel,  a bottleneck in your future path space,  in order to achieve many other  diverse objectives later on,  or just like you would invest  in a financial security,  reducing your short-term liquidity  in order to increase your wealth over the long term,  goal seeking emerges directly from a long-term drive    	  その答えは ゴールを探す能力は 次のことと直接的に関係するのです 次のことと直接的に関係するのです 様々な目的を達成するためにー 様々な目的を達成するためにー 待ち構える障害を切り抜けたり 待ち構える障害を切り抜けたり 長期的に財産を増やすためー 長期的に財産を増やすためー 短期的に資金が減ったとしても 生活資金保障に投資するなど 短期的に資金が減ったとしても 生活資金保障に投資するなど ゴールシークは 未来の行動の自由度を増加させるー  
 to increase future freedom of action.    	  ゴールシークは 未来の行動の自由度を増加させるー 長期的な動機から直接発生します  
 Finally, Richard Feynman, famous physicist,  once wrote that if human civilization were destroyed  and you could pass only a single concept  on to our descendants  to help them rebuild civilization,  that concept should be  that all matter around us  is made out of tiny elements  that attract each other when they're far apart  but repel each other when they're close together.    	  最後に 有名な物理学者 リチャード・フェインマンの言葉 “もし人間の文明が滅びー 文明を再建するため ある概念を 一つだけ子孫に伝えられるとしたら 文明を再建するため ある概念を 一つだけ子孫に伝えられるとしたら 文明を再建するため ある概念を 一つだけ子孫に伝えられるとしたら 「私達の周りの物は全て 小さな原子でできておりー 「私達の周りの物は全て 小さな原子でできておりー 離れた時は引き付け合うが 引っ付いた時は離れる」という概念だ” 離れた時は引き付け合うが 引っ付いた時は離れる」という概念だ” 離れた時は引き付け合うが 引っ付いた時は離れる」という概念だ”  
 My equivalent of that statement  to pass on to descendants  to help them build artificial intelligences  or to help them understand human intelligence,  is the following:  Intelligence should be viewed as a physical process  that tries to maximize future freedom of action  and avoid constraints in its own future.    	  この言葉の私の解釈はー この言葉の私の解釈はー 人工知能の製作と 人間の知能の理解に役立つ― 人工知能の製作と 人間の知能の理解に役立つ― 次のようなものです 知能というのは 未来の自由度を最大にしー 知能というのは 未来の自由度を最大にしー 制限をなくすような 物理的プロセスであるべきだということです 制限をなくすような 物理的プロセスであるべきだということです  
 Thank you very much.    	  ありがとうございました  
